1. The journal bearings are generally used in __________
a) Belts
b) Columns
c) Beams
d) Supports
d
2. At what conditions does the Coulomb friction occur between the surfaces in contact of journal bearing?
a) When there is no lubricating fluid
b) When there is no friction fluid
c) When there is no adhesive fluid
d) When there is no cohesive fluid
a
3. Determine the moment about the point Q by the force shown as 400N.
a) -98.6kN
b) 98.6kN
c) -98.6iN
d) -98.6jN
a
4. We first make equilibrium equations of the sections involving the journal bearings by considering all the three dimensional forces acting on the section chosen and then the free body diagram is made and solved.
a) The first part of the statement is false and other part is true
b) The first part of the statement is false and other part is false too
c) The first part of the statement is true and other part is false
d) The first part of the statement is true and other part is true too
d
5. To know the rotations involved in the journal bearings we use right handed coordinate system, in that system which of the following is followed (consider the mentioned axis to be positive)?
a) Thumb is z-axis, fingers curled from x-axis to y-axis
b) Thumb is x-axis, fingers curled from z-axis to y-axis
c) Thumb is y-axis, fingers curled from x-axis to z-axis
d) Thumb is z-axis, fingers curled from y-axis to x-axis
a
6. The moment is the cross product of which two vectors in the calculations of the journal bearings?
a) Force and Radius vectors
b) Radius and Force vectors
c) Force and Radius scalars
d) Radius and Force scalars
b
7. The basic type of motion of a body is not the translation motion only.
a) True
b) False
a
8. Determine the moment about the point P.
a) 460Nm
b) 500Nm
c) 705Nm
d) 0Nm
a
9. Sometime the principle of transmissibility is somehow applied to journal bearings. It states that:
a) It states that the force acting on the body is a sliding vector
b) It states that the force acting on the body is a rolling vector
c) It states that the force acting on the body is a wedging vector
d) It states that the force acting on the body is a unit vector
a
10. Coplanar forces are not easily simplified in the simplification of the force and couple system in the calculations of forces in the journal bearings.
a) True
b) False
b
11. There are some of the applications of the two force and three force members in the journal bearings. The difference between the two and the three force members is:
a) The former is collinear and the latter is parallel
b) The former is parallel and the latter is perpendicular
c) The former is perpendicular and the latter is collinear
d) The former is acting on two points in the body while the latter is on three points
d
12. Which of the following is true for the determination of the rotational effect of the bearings?
a) If we are considering the clockwise direction to be positive then the rotation along the counter clockwise direction is negative
b) If we are considering the clockwise direction to be negative then the rotation along the counter clockwise direction is also negative as no such assumptions can be taken
c) If we are considering the clockwise direction to be positive then the rotation along the counter clockwise direction is also positive as no such assumptions can be taken
d) If we are considering the clockwise direction to be negative then the rotation along the counter clockwise direction is neither positive nor negative as we only pre assumed the clockwise direction
a
13. The doors are having hinges to support them. This hinge is too a type of bearing or is a Device which is using the effect like bearing to support. So, if you are opening the door, then the force you apply is greater if you open it from the part closer to the hinges.
a) True
b) False
a
14. Which of the following is true for the bearing’s body?
a) Total moment of various forces acting on the body is the vector sum of all moments in 3D
b) Total moment of various forces acting on the body is the algebraic sum of all moments in 3D
c) Total moment of various forces acting on the body is always zero in any dimension
d) Total moment of various forces acting on the body is the vector sum of all moments which is perpendicular to each other forces whatever be the dimensions
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Engineering Mechanics.
To practice all areas of Engineering Mechanics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Engineering Mechanics Questions and Answers –  Frictional Forces on Collar Bearing, Pivot Bearings and Disks» Next - Engineering Mechanics Questions and Answers –  Rolling Resistance 
