1. The uniformly distributed load is having two different values of load per unit length on the ends of the distribution.
a) True
b) False
b
2. There are two types of loading. The uniformly distributed and the non-uniformly distributed that is the one having two different values at corners.
a) The first part of the statement is false and other part is true
b) The first part of the statement is false and other part is false too
c) The first part of the statement is true and other part is false
d) The first part of the statement is true and other part is true too
d
3. The type of reduction of the loading is different for the uniformly distributed and the non-uniformly.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Determine the magnitude of the resultant force acting on the shaft shown from left.
a) 640N
b) 675N
c) 620N
d) 610N
b
5. In the simplification of the loading system, the net force acts at the ___________ of the loading body.
a) Centroid
b) The centre axis
c) The corner
d) The base
a
6. In triangle distributed loading, the loading at any distance can be easily found by using which of the following trigonometry function?
a) Tangent
b) Sine
c) Cosine
d) Sine inverse
a
7. Determine the magnitude of the resultant force acting on the shaft shown. The length is 2m.
a) 160N
b) 16N
c) 169N
d) 111N
a
8. If the non-Uniform loading is of the type of parabola then?
a) The net load will not be formed as all the forces will be cancelled
b) The net force will act the centre of the parabola
c) The net force will act on the base of the loading horizontally
d) The net force will act at the centroid of the parabola
d
9. If any external force also is applied on the distributed loading then?
a) The net force will act at the centroid of the structure only
b) The net load will not be formed as all the forces will be cancelled
c) The net force will act on the base of the loading horizontally
d) The net force will not to be considered, there would be a net force of the distribution, rest will be the external forces
d
10. The resultant force acting, of the uniformly distributed loading, is dependent on:
a) Area
b) Vertical distance
c) Length of the supports
d) The distance of the supports between them
a
11. The difference between the two types of loading namely uniformly distributed and the non-uniformly distributed loading is that:
a) The latter has the involvement of the integration for the calculation of the net force
b) The former has the involvement of the integration for the calculation of the net force
c) The latter has the involvement of the differentiation for the calculation of the net force
d) The former has the involvement of the differentiation for the calculation of the net force
a
12. Determine the location of the resultant force acting on the shaft shown from left. The length is 2m.
a) 1.5m
b) 0.5m
c) 0.7m
d) 1.8m
a
13. Determine the location of the resultant force acting on the shaft shown from left.
a) 4.5m
b) 4m
c) 3.5m
d) 2m
b
15. Determine the magnitude of the resultant force acting on the shaft shown from left.
a) 1650N
b) 150N
c) 1250N
d) 1450N
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Engineering Mechanics.
To practice all areas of Engineering Mechanics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Engineering Mechanics Questions and Answers –  Simplification of a Force and Couple System – 2» Next - Engineering Mechanics Questions and Answers –  Conditions for a Rigid-Body Equilibrium – 1 
