1. Which of the following filter(s) has the response in which the central pixel value is replaced by value defined by ranking the pixel in the image encompassed by filter?
a)	Order-Statistic filters
b)	Non-linear spatial filters
c)	Median filter
d)	All of the mentioned
d
2. Is it true or false that “the original pixel value is included while computing the median using gray-levels in the neighborhood of the original pixel in median filter case”?
a)	True
b)	False
a
3. Two filters of similar size are used for smoothing image having impulse noise. One is median filter while the other is a linear spatial filter. Which would the blurring effect of both?
a)	Median filter effects in considerably less blurring than the linear spatial filters
b)	Median filter effects in considerably more blurring than the linear spatial filters
c)	Both have the same blurring effect
d)	All of the mentioned
a
4. An image contains noise having appearance as black and white dots superimposed on the image. Which of the following noise(s) has the same appearance?
a)	Salt-and-pepper noise
b)	Gaussian noise
c)	All of the mentioned
d)	None of the mentioned
c
5. While performing the median filtering, suppose a 3*3 neighborhood has value (10, 20, 20, 20, 15, 20, 20, 25, 100), then what is the median value to be given to the pixel under filter?
a)	15
b)	20
c)	100
d)	25
b
6. Which of the following are forced to the median intensity of the neighbors by n*n median filter?
a)	Isolated cluster of pixels that are light or dark in comparison to their neighbors
b)	Isolated cluster of pixels whose area is less than one-half the filter area
c)	All of the mentioned
d)	None of the mentioned
c
If the area of such isolated pixels are < n2/2, that is again the pixel value won’t be a median value and so are eliminated.
Larger cluster pixels value are more pronounced to be a median value, so are considerably less forced to median intensity.
7. Which filter(s) used to find the brightest point in the image?
a)	Median filter
b)	Max filter
c)	Mean filter
d)	All of the mentioned
b
8. The median filter also represents which of the following ranked set of numbers?
a)	100th percentile
b)	0th percentile
c)	50th percentile
d)	None of the mentioned
c
9. Which of the following filter represents a 0th percentile set of numbers?
a)	Max filter
b)	Mean filter
c)	Median filter
d)	None of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Digital Image Processing.
To practice all areas of Digital Image Processing, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Digital Image Processing Questions and Answers – Smoothing Linear Spatial Filters» Next - Digital Image Processing Questions and Answers – Spatial Filtering 
