1.	Which of the following is/are more commercially successful image enhancement method in mask mode radiography, an area under medical imaging?
a)	Addition
b)	Subtraction
c)	Multiplication
d)	Division
b
This the best commercially successful method.
2.	The subtraction operation results in areas that appear as dark shades of gray. Why?
a)	Because the difference in such areas is little, that yields low value
b)	Because the difference in such areas is high, that yields low value
c)	Because the difference in such areas is high, that yields high value
d)	None of the mentioned
a
3.	If the images are displayed using 8-bits, then, what is the range of the value of an image if the image is a result of subtraction operation?
a)	0 to 255
b)	0 to 511
c)	-255 to 0
d)	None of the mentioned
d
4.	The subtracted image needs to be scaled, if 8-bit channel is used to display the subtracted images. So, the method of adding 255 to each pixel and then dividing by 2, has certain lim its. What is/are those lim its?
a)	Very complex method
b)	Very difficult to implement
c)	The truncation inherent in division by 2 causes loss in accuracy
d)	All of the mentioned
c
5.	Which of the following is/are the fundamental factors that need tight control for difference based inspection work?
a)	Proper registration
b)	Controlled illum ination
c)	Noise levels should be low enough so that the variation due to noise won’t affect the difference value much
d)	All of the mentioned
d
Controlled Illum ination is important because changes in illum ination can affect dramatically the difference image values.
Noise levels of a difference image must low enough so that the variation due to noise won’t affect the difference value much.
6.	When can two random variables be uncorrelated?
a)	Their covariance is 0
b)	Their covariance is 1
c)	Their covariance is -1
d)	None of the mentioned
a
7.	In Image Averaging enhancement method assumptions are made for a noisy image g(x, y). What is/are those?
a)	The noise is correlated at every pair of coordinate (x, y)
b)	The noise has average value 1 at every pair of coordinate (x, y)
c)	All of the mentioned
d)	None of the mentioned
d
8.	The standard deviation ‘σ’ at any point in image averaging: σḡ(x, y) = 1/√K σɳ(x, y), where ḡ(x, y) is the average image formed by averaging K different noisy images and ɳ(x, y) is the noise added to an original image f(x, y). What is the relation between K and the variability of the pixel values at each location (x, y)?
a)	Increase in K, decreases the noise of pixel values
b)	Increase in K, increases the noise of pixel values
c)	Decrease in K, decreases the noise of pixel values
d)	Decrease in K, increases the noise of pixel values
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Digital Image Processing.
To practice all areas of Digital Image Processing, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Digital Image Processing Questions and Answers – Enhancement using Logic Operations» Next - Digital Image Processing Questions and Answers – Use of Second Order Derivative for Enhancement 
