1. Which of the following is the primary objective of sharpening of an image?
a) Blurring the image
b) Highlight fine details in the image
c) Increase the brightness of the image
d) Decrease the brightness of the image
b
2. Image sharpening process is used in electronic printing.
a) True
b) False
a
3. In spatial domain, which of the following operation is done on the pixels in sharpening the image?
a) Integration
b) Average
c) Median
d) Differentiation
d
4. Image differentiation enhances the edges, discontinuities and deemphasizes the pixels with slow varying gray levels.
a) True
b) False
a
5. In which of the following cases, we wouldn’t worry about the behaviour of sharpening filter?
a) Flat segments
b) Step discontinuities
c) Ramp discontinuities
d) Slow varying gray values
d
6. Which of the following is the valid response when we apply a first derivative?
a) Non-zero at flat segments
b) Zero at the onset of gray level step
c) Zero in flat segments
d) Zero along ramps
c
7. Which of the following is not a valid response when we apply a second derivative?
a) Zero response at onset of gray level step
b) Nonzero response at onset of gray level step
c) Zero response at flat segments
d) Nonzero response along the ramps
b
8. If f(x,y) is an image function of two variables, then the first order derivative of a one dimensional function, f(x) is:
a) f(x+1)-f(x)
b) f(x)-f(x+1)
c) f(x-1)-f(x+1)
d) f(x)+f(x-1)
a
That is, ∂f/∂x=f(x+1)-f(x).
9. Isolated point is also called as noise point.
a) True
b) False
a
10. What is the thickness of the edges produced by first order derivatives when compared to that of second order derivatives?
a) Finer
b) Equal
c) Thicker
d) Independent
c
11. First order derivative can enhance the fine detail in the image compared to that of second order derivative.
a) True
b) False
b
12. Which of the following derivatives produce a double response at step changes in gray level?
a) First order derivative
b) Third order derivative
c) Second order derivative
d) First and second order derivatives
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Digital Image Processing.
To practice all areas of Digital Image Processing, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Digital Image Processing Questions And Answers – Basic Intensity Transformation Functions» Next - Digital Image Processing Questions and Answers – Sharpening Spatial Filters-2 
