This section of our 1000+ Computer Graphics multiple choice questions focuses on Curve Attributes.
1. The basic parameter to curved attributes are
a) Type
b) Width
c) Color
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. Raster curves of various widths can be displayed using
a) Horizontal or vertical spans
b) Horizontal spans
c) Vertical spans
d) Horizontal and vertical spans
a
3. If the magnitude of the curve slope is lesser than 1, then
a) We can plot horizontal spans
b) We can plot vertical spans
c) Only b
d) All of the mentioned
c
4. If the slope magnitude is 1, then circles, ellipse and other curves will appear
a) Thick
b) Thinnest
c) Big
d) Rough
b
5. One of the method for displaying thick curves is
a) Curve slope
b) Curve width
c) Curve cap
d) Only c
a
6. The pixel masks for implementing line-type options are also used in the following algorithm to generate dashed and dotted patterns.
a) Raster line algorithm
b) Raster scan algorithm
c) Raster curve  algorithm
d) Random curve  algorithm
c
7. We can generate the dashes in the various octants and the circle path with vertical path using
a) Circles
b) Circle symmetry
c) Circle simmetry
d) Curve slope
b
8. The function of the pixel mask is
a) To display dashes and inter dash spaces according to the slope
b) To display curved attributes
c) To display  the thick curves
d) None of these
a
9. If we want to display constant-length dashes, then we need to do the following.
a) We need to adjust the number of pixels plotted in each dash
b) We need to adjust the number of dots
c) We must use line-type functions
d) Neither a nor c
a
10. The curves displayed with a rectangular pen will be
a) Thinner
b)  Thicker and magnitude slope is 1
c) Thicker and magnitude slope >1
d) B or C
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Computer Graphics.
To practice all areas of Computer Graphics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Computer Graphics Questions & Answers – Line Attributes» Next - Computer Graphics Questions & Answers – Color and Grayscale Levels 
