1. This turbine receives steam at high pressure of 600 to 900 psi and discharges it at pressure suitable for supplying to existing low pressure plant. Identify the turbine?
a) Topping Turbine
b) Back-Pressure Turbine
c) Condensing Turbine
d) Extraction Turbine
a
2. Arjun underwent industrial training in his 2nd year at National Thermal Power Plant. But he was surprised to know that a special turbine is used to meet the electrical energy requirement in the plant itself. Can you identify which turbine did he observe?
a) High Pressure Condensing Turbine
b) House Turbine
c) Gas Turbine
d) Mixed Pressure Turbine
b
3. Tanuj and Shyam have a strong discussion over the advantages of Induction-Extraction turbine.
Tanuj: They are employed when a particular manufacturing process require a large quantity of steam at a particular pressure.
Shyam: They are employed when an abundance of waste steam is available at the same pressure. Which one the two you think is correct?
a) Tanuj
b) Shyam
c) Tanuj & Shyam
d) None of the mentioned
c
4. Where in industries do we find back-pressure turbines?
a) At a point in industry where waste steam has to be employed
b) When pressure needs to be applied at rear end
c) When one turbine bolster other
d) There is a requirement of process steam at single pressure
d
5. This turbine is an ingenious method for accomplishing multi velocity staging in a single wheel. Name this turbine?
a) Tangential Turbine
b) Single Stage Impulse Turbine
c) Multi Stage Impulse Turbine
d) None of the mentioned
a
6. A marine officer asks you to design a turbine for marine propulsion. Which of the below would be your best choice?
a) Mixed pressure turbine
b) Condensing high pressure regenerative turbine
c) Gas Turbine
d) Tandem-Compound double flow turbine
b
7. A multipass turbine is a prime mover.
a) True
b) False
a
8. In Europe special types of turbines are used that do not have fixed blades so that pressure drop are necessary in all blade passages. Which turbine is it?
a) Tangential Turbine
b) Axial Flow Turbine
c) Radial Turbine
d) None of the mentioned above
c
9. You own an industry in which the boiler generates a lot of waste steam which you think could be utilized. Which turbine will you utilize?
a) Mixed Pressure Turbine
b) Back Pressure Turbine
c) Twin-Shaft Gas Turbine
d) Induction-Extraction Turbine
d
10. Mac doubts that why do we use House Turbine in National Thermal Power Plants. Can you clear his doubts?
a) The exhaust steam or extraction steam is used for feedwater heating or to supply steam for small turbines serving as auxiliary drives
b) Have huge capacity sufficient enough to run the plant
c) Have minimum losses
d) They can be vertical compounded
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Steam and Gas Turbines.
To practice tricky questions on all areas of Steam and Gas Turbines, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Steam and Gas Turbines Questions and Answers – Classification based on Application, Cycle and Fuel – 1» Next - Steam and Gas Turbines Questions and Answers – Combined Power Plant 
