1. The system of spools, adapters, and valves to control the pressure of a well in drilling and production operation is known as Wellhead Equipment.
a) True
b) False
a
2. Which of the following is not wellhead equipment?
a) Casing head
b) Tubing hanger
c) Packer
d) Tubing head
c
3. What is a tubing head?
a) It is the tubing hanger
b) Means of attaching the Christmas tree to the wellhead
c) It is found inside the separator
d) It is attached to the packer
b
4. The function of the tubing head is to hang the tubing string inside the well.
a) True
b) False
a
5. What is a Back Pressure Valve?
a) It is a type of Check Valve
b) It is not used in the Oil and Gas Industry
c) Used inside the gate valve
d) Not used in multilateral wells
a
6. When the Shut-in pressure exceeds 5000 psi then how many master valves are attached to the Christmas tree of the well?
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4
b
7. What is a Choke or Bean?
a) Used to move tools on the surface
b) Used inside the packer
c) Used for lifting the pipe
d) Controls flow
d
8. What is Kill Manifold?
a) Controls the fluid rate
b) Controls the rising of strings
c) Controls Kick and Blowout
d) Used in Perforating gun
c
9. What is a Side Pocket Mandrel?
a) Used to house the gas-lift valve type devices
b) Used inside the packer
c) Controls the well blowout
d) Controls the lowering of strings
a
10. What is an Adjustable choke?
a) Used to build up pressure above the bottom hole flowing pressure
b) This Choke can’t be adjusted
c) Used to control the pressure drop
d) It is used inside the packer
c
11. What is ASV in the oil and gas industry?
a) Armature Safety Valve
b) Anchor Safety Valve
c) Annular Surface Valve
d) Annulus Safety Valve
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Petroleum Production Operations.
To practice all areas of Petroleum Production Operations, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Petroleum Production Operations Questions and Answers – Subsurface Control Equipment» Next - Petroleum Production Operations Questions and Answers – Perforating Oil & Gas Wells 
