1. The increase in temperature is probably the most common cause of wax deposition.
a) True
b) False
b
2. Asphaltene deposition is an electrical phenomenon.
a) True
b) False
a
3. Which of the following statement is incorrect regarding the waxes and asphaltenes regarding their different types of phenomenon in deposition?
a) High cloud point crudes form stable emulsions
b) Waxes are high MW alkanes present in crude that crystallize when cooled below the cloud point
c) Waxes are water wet
d) Asphaltene deposition is an electrical phenomenon
c
4. Which of the following statement is incorrect regarding the Wax and Asphaletens?
a) Waxes are soluble in oil
b) Waxy emulsions are more likely at lower temp
c) Wettability is the degree of the solid to be wetted by oil or water when both are present
d) Asphaltenes exist as colloidal suspension (1nm – 1000nm) and are not stabilized by resins
d
Join [email protected]
5. Which of the following statement is incorrect regarding the paraffin and wax depositions?
a) Temperature reduction is the cause of wax deposition
b) High gas-oil ration magnifies the paraffin deposition problems
c) Paraffin deposition is not affected by changes in the water-oil ratio
d) Fluids flow through porous media can develop an electrical charge through the steaming potential phenomenon
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Petroleum Production Operations.
To practice all areas of Petroleum Production Operations, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Petroleum Production Operations Questions and Answers – Paraffin and Asphaltene Chemistry» Next - Petroleum Production Operations Questions and Answers – Paraffins & Asphaltenes – Removal of Wax Deposits 
