1. Calcite and Dolomite fall under which of the reservoir category?
a) Sandstone
b) Shale
c) Evaporites
d) Carbonate
d
2. For carbonate reservoirs in Matrix Acidizing (10-15)%  HCl is used.
a) True
b) False
a
3. Porosity and Pore size increase when complete dolomitization is approached.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Which of the following rock type plays an important role in Mumbai Offshore Basin for Oil and Gas recovery?
a) Sandstone
b) Carbonate
c) Shale
d) Evaporites
b
5. Which of the following is incorrect about the carbonate reservoir?
a) Carbonates are formed within the basin of the deposition locally
b) Carbonates are formed with different types of biological constituents
c) Diagenesis plays an important role in carbonate forming
d) Carbonates are less heterogeneous than sandstone reservoirs in most of the cases
d
6. Which of the following is correct regarding the given carbonate reservoir if it has good porosity and permeability?
a) It will have a good oil recovery factor
b) The oil recovery factor remains the same irrespective of whether the pore walls are water wet or oil wet
c) It will have a good water recovery factor
d) The force of adhesion for oil flow through the porous media will be more than the cohesion force
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Petroleum Production Operations.
To practice all areas of Petroleum Production Operations, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Petroleum Production Operations Questions and Answers – Geologic Factors Affecting Reservoir Properties in Sandstone Reservoirs» Next - Petroleum Production Operations Questions and Answers – Hydrocarbon Properties of Oil and Gas 
