1. Production packers are generally classified as Retrievable and Permanent Packers.
a) True
b) False
a
2. Which of the following is true for the sealing action of packers?
a) The sealing stress should be equal to the differential pressure
b) The differential pressure must exceed the sealing stress
c) The sealing stress must exceed the differential pressure
d) Sealing stress and differential pressure are independent and don’t care about whether which is more
c
3. Packers are used in some artificial lift techniques.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Which of the following is not a purpose of a production packer?
a) Protection of casing from pressure
b) Isolation of casing leaks
c) To hold kill fluids
d) To measure the pressure
d
5. What is the temperature up to which Teflon resists H2S or other chemical attacks?
a) 550°F
b) 150°F
c) 450°F
d) 550°F
c
6. What is the procedure to remove the permanent packer?
a) Annular pressure release
b) Fishing operation
c) High differential pressure technique
d) Stress release
b
7. Which of the packers can be used for Through Tubing operations?
a) Packers with an external radius equal to the tubing radius
b) Packers with an external diameter equal to the tubing diameter
c) Packers with an internal diameter greater the tubing diameter
d) Packers with an internal diameter equal to the tubing diameter
d
7. In which of the following case using of Tension set packers are favorable?
a) For shallow depth
b) For deep wells
c) For Ultradeep wells
d) In between shallow and deep wells
a
8. Which of the following plays a major role in the setting of a Mechanical set Packer?
a) Yield stress of the tubing
b) The tension of the string
c) Tubing rotation
d) Weight of the tubing
c
9. What is the function of the “J” slot of the Weight Set Packer?
a) Permits the rotation of the tubing
b) Permits the horizontal movement of the tubing
c) Permits the vertical movement of the tubing
d) Permits the circulation of the fluid inside the tubing
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Petroleum Production Operations.
To practice all areas of Petroleum Production Operations, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Petroleum Production Operations Questions and Answers – Completion Equipment – Corrosion» Next - Petroleum Production Operations Questions and Answers – Completion Equipment – Effect of Pressure and Temperature Changes 
