1. Wellbore influx is easier to detect in oil-based mud as compared to water-based mud.
a) True
b) False
b
2. An oil well is having a true vertical depth of 10000 ft and measured depth of 12000 ft. the tubing shut-in pressure is 500 psi and the weight of the fluid in the tubing is 4 ppg. Calculate the formation gradient in psi/ft of the well?
a) 0.354
b) 0.454
c) 0.2
d) 0.258
d
3. What is the main function of the subsurface safety valve?
a) Always Controls production rate
b) Shut the well in case of emergency
c) Shut the well in before removing wireline lubricator
d) Allows the formation of fluid influx
b
4. Calculate the kill weight required to kill the well where the shut-in tubing pressure is 4500 psi, top of perforation is 12000 Measured depth/ 10000 True vertical depth and the formation fluid density is 2 ppg?
a) 10.5 ppg
b) 10.7 ppg
c) 10.9 ppg
d) Component-based
b
5. Consider a well in which the annulus is full of 11.5 ppg fluid and the tubing is full of 7 ppg fluid. What should be done to reverse circulate the well with 11.5 ppg while maintaining the bottom hole pressure constant?
a) Hold tubing pressure constant while circulating
b) Hold the pressure inside the packer constant
c) Hold casing pressure constant while reverse circulate
d) Hole casing pressure constant until one tubing volume is reached and then hold tubing pressure constant
c
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Petroleum Production Operations.
To practice all areas of Petroleum Production Operations, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Petroleum Production Operations Questions and Answers – Workover to Reduce Water Production in Oil and Gas Wells» Next - Petroleum Production Operations Questions and Answers – Workover to Change Zones or Reservoirs 
