1. What is Net fracture pressure?
a) Fracture propagation pressure
b) Fracture closure pressure
c) Pressure in the fracture less the fracture closure pressure
d) Pressure in the fracture in excess of the fracture closure pressure
d
2. What is fracture propagation pressure?
a) Fracture closure pressure
b) As the fracture extended the pressure in the fracture
c) Pressure in the fracture less the fracture closure pressure
d) Pressure in the fracture in excess of the fracture closure pressure
b
3. What is the main advantage of fracking?
a) Potential for economic revitalization
b) Cost-effectiveness as compared to other methods
c) Provision of an alternative energy source
d) Lack of environmental impact compared to other methods
c
4. What is fracture closure pressure?
a) Net fracture pressure
b) Pressure required to hold the fracture open
c) Pressure in the fracture less the fracture propagation pressure
d) Pressure in the fracture in excess of the fracture propagation pressure
b
5. Which of the following is correct regarding the fracture gradient?
a) It is the ratio of Fracture closure pressure to a depth
b) Pressure gradient in the fracture in excess of the fracture propagation pressure gradient
c) Pressure gradient in the fracture in less of the fracture propagation pressure gradient
d) The pressure required to hold the fracture open
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Petroleum Production Operations.
To practice all areas of Petroleum Production Operations Problems, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Petroleum Production Operations Questions and Answers – Mechanisms of Hydraulic Fracturing» Next - Petroleum Production Operations Questions and Answers – Hydraulic Fracturing – Propping the Fracture 
