1. What is Squeeze cementing?
a) It is the process of injecting or squeezing drilling mud into a problematic void space at a desired location in the well
b) It is the process of removing the cement from a problematic void space at a desired location in the well
c) It is the process of injecting or squeezing formation fluid into a problematic void space at a desired location in the well
d) It is the process of injecting or squeezing cement into a problematic void space at a desired location in the well
d
2. Why Squeeze cementing is used?
a) Seal thief or lost-circulation zones
b) To start the production
c) To increase the mud density
d) To increase the drilling fluid density
a
3. What is not an advantage of using coil tubing?
a) Smaller crew
b) Better kick detection
c) Can circulate large volumes of drilling fluid
d) No drill string connection
c
4. What is the actual intention of pumping CO2 into the reservoir in the oil and gas industry?
a) To increase pressure to increase production
b) To decrease the production
c) To kill the reservoir
d) To expand the reservoir
a
5. How can we ensure efficient placement of a cement sheath around the casing string?
a) By using Reamer
b) By using centralizer
c) By using casing shoe
d) By using agitator
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Petroleum Production Operations.
To practice all areas of Petroleum Production Operations, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Petroleum Production Operations Questions and Answers – Squeeze Cementing – Theoretical Considerations» Next - Petroleum Production Operations Questions and Answers – Special Squeeze Cementing Situations 
