1. Changes in pressure and temperature can unseat a packer.
a) True
b) False
a
2. What is Hooke’s Law?
a) Strain in a solid body is directly proportional to the applied stress without the elastic limit of that solid body under consideration
b) Strain in a solid body is directly proportional to the applied stress within the elastic limit of that body under consideration
c) Strain in a solid body is inversely proportional to the applied stress within the elastic limit of that solid body under consideration
d) Strain in a solid body is inversely proportional to the applied stress without the elastic limit of that solid body under consideration
b
3. Which of the following is true for the ballooning effect?
a) It happens when the average pressure inside and the outside pressure of the tubing string are equal
b) It is caused by the change in the average pressure of the formation and the outside pressure of the tubing string
c) It is caused by the change in average pressure inside or the outside pressure of the tubing string
d) It happens when the change in the average pressure of the formation and the outside pressure of the tubing string are equal
c
4. The pressure changes can unseat the packer.
a) True
b) False
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
5. What is Packer Setting Force?
a) The tensile force used to set the packer
b) The initial compressive or tensile force used to set the packer
c) The initial compressive force used to set the packer
d) The force used to retrieve the packer
b
6. Which of the following is true for Pipe Buckling?
a) It happens when the average pressure inside and the outside pressure of the tubing string are equal and shortening of length because of the tubing being in a spiral shape
b) It is caused by the change in the average pressure of the formation and the outside pressure of the tubing string and shortening of length because of the tubing being in straight shape
c) It is caused when the average pressure inside the tubing string is greater than the outside pressure of the tubing string and shortening of length because of the tubing being in a spiral shape
d) It happens when the change in the average pressure of the formation and the outside pressure of the tubing string are equal
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Petroleum Production Operations.
To practice all areas of Petroleum Production Operations Assessment Questions, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Petroleum Production Operations Questions and Answers – Completion Equipment – Packers» Next - Petroleum Production Operations Questions and Answers – Subsurface Control Equipment 
