1. Cement is used in between the annular space between the production tubing and casing.
a) True
b) False
b
2. Portland cement is a mixture of coarsely grained Beryllium compounds.
a) True
b) False
b
3. Which of the following is not formed in the burning process in the manufacturing of cement?
a) Tricalcium Silicate
b) Dicalcium Silicate
c) Tricalcium aluminoferrite
d) Tetracalcium aluminoferrite
c
4. What is Pozmix cement?
a) Portland cement
b) Portland cement with Pozzolan and about 2% Bentonite
c) Pozzolan with 2% Bentonite
d) Pozzolan with 5% Bentonite
b
5. Refractory cement is formed by which of the following process?
a) Heating Bauxite and Limestone until liquefied then cooling and grinding
b) Heating Bentonite and Limestone until liquefied then cooling and grinding
c) Heating Bentonite and Calcite until liquefied then grinding
d) Heating Bentonite and Calcite until liquefied then cooling and grinding
a
6. What is Gypsum cement?
a) Hemihydrate form of Gypsum
b) Hemihydrate form of Calcite
c) Hydrated Gypsum
d) Hydrated Calcite
a
7. What is Permafrost cement?
a) A blend of Gypsum cement with Pozmix cement
b) A blend of Calcite with Portland cement
c) A blend of Gypsum cement with Bentonite
d) A blend of Gypsum cement with Portland cement
d
8. Which of the following are effective means of reducing the density of cement?
a) Barite
b) Calcite
c) LCM
d) Pozzolans or Bentonite
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Petroleum Production Operations.
To practice all areas of Petroleum Production Operations, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Petroleum Production Operations Questions and Answers – Well Testing – Recommendations for Obtaining Good Test Data» Next - Petroleum Production Operations Questions and Answers – Cement Additives 
