1. Which condition is used to cease the growth of forward chaining?
a) Atomic sentences
b) Complex sentences
c) No further inference
d) All of the mentioned
c
2. Which closely resembles propositional definite clause?
a) Resolution
b) Inference
c) Conjunction
d) First-order definite clauses
d
3. What is the condition of variables in first-order literals?
a) Existentially quantified
b) Universally quantified
c) Both Existentially & Universally quantified
d) None of the mentioned
b
4. Which are more suitable normal form to be used with definite clause?
a) Positive literal
b) Negative literal
c) Generalized modus ponens
d) Neutral literal
c
5. Which will be the instance of the class datalog knowledge bases?
a) Variables
b) No function symbols
c) First-order definite clauses
d) None of the mentioned
b
6. Which knowledge base is called as fixed point?
a) First-order definite clause are similar to propositional forward chaining
b) First-order definite clause are mismatch to propositional forward chaining
c) All of the mentioned
d) None of the mentioned
a
7. How to eliminate the redundant rule matching attempts in the forward chaining?
a) Decremental forward chaining
b) Incremental forward chaining
c) Data complexity
d) None of the mentioned
b
8. From where did the new fact inferred on new iteration is derived?
a) Old fact
b) Narrow fact
c) New fact
d) All of the mentioned
c
9. Which will solve the conjuncts of the rule so that the total cost is minimized?
a) Constraint variable
b) Conjunct ordering
c) Data complexity
d) All of the mentioned
b
10. How many possible sources of complexity are there in forward chaining?
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Artificial Intelligence.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Artificial Intelligence.
To practice all areas of Artificial Intelligence, here is complete set of 250+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Artificial Intelligence.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Artificial Intelligence Questions & Answers – Resolution» Next - Artificial Intelligence Questions & Answers – Backward Chaining 
