1. Which algorithm will work backward from the goal to solve a problem?
a) Forward chaining
b) Backward chaining
c) Hill-climb algorithm
d) None of the mentioned
b
2. Which is mainly used for automated reasoning?
a) Backward chaining
b) Forward chaining
c) Logic programming
d) Parallel programming
c
3. What will backward chaining algorithm will return?
a) Additional statements
b) Substitutes matching the query
c) Logical statement
d) All of the mentioned
b
4. How can be the goal is thought of in backward chaining algorithm?
a) Queue
b) List
c) Vector
d) Stack
d
5. What is used in backward chaining algorithm?
a) Conjuncts
b) Substitution
c) Composition of substitution
d) None of the mentioned
c
6. Which algorithm are in more similar to backward chaining algorithm?
a) Depth-first search algorithm
b) Breadth-first search algorithm
c) Hill-climbing search algorithm
d) All of the mentioned
a
7. Which problem can frequently occur in backward chaining algorithm?
a) Repeated states
b) Incompleteness
c) Complexity
d) Both Repeated states & Incompleteness
d
8. How the logic programming can be constructed?
a) Variables
b) Expressing knowledge in a formal language
c) Graph
d) All of the mentioned
b
9. What form of negation does the prolog allows?
a) Negation as failure
b) Proposition
c) Substitution
d) Negation as success
a
10. Which is omitted in prolog unification algorithm?
a) Variable check
b) Occur check
c) Proposition check
d) Both Occur & Proposition check
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Artificial Intelligence.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Artificial Intelligence.
To practice all areas of Artificial Intelligence, here is complete set of 250+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Artificial Intelligence.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Artificial Intelligence Questions & Answers – Forward Chaining» Next - Artificial Intelligence Questions and Answers – Knowledge and Reasoning 
