1. How many terms are required for building a bayes model?
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4
c
2. What is needed to make probabilistic systems feasible in the world?
a) Reliability
b) Crucial robustness
c) Feasibility
d) None of the mentioned
b
3. Where does the bayes rule can be used?
a) Solving queries
b) Increasing complexity
c) Decreasing complexity
d) Answering probabilistic query
d
4. What does the bayesian network provides?
a) Complete description of the domain
b) Partial description of the domain
c) Complete description of the problem
d) None of the mentioned
a
5. How the entries in the full joint probability distribution can be calculated?
a) Using variables
b) Using information
c) Both Using variables & information
d) None of the mentioned
b
6. How the bayesian network can be used to answer any query?
a) Full distribution
b) Joint distribution
c) Partial distribution
d) All of the mentioned
b
7. How the compactness of the bayesian network can be described?
a) Locally structured
b) Fully structured
c) Partial structure
d) All of the mentioned
a
8. To which does the local structure is associated?
a) Hybrid
b) Dependant
c) Linear
d) None of the mentioned
c
9. Which condition is used to influence a variable directly by all the others?
a) Partially connected
b) Fully connected
c) Local connected
d) None of the mentioned
b
10. What is the consequence between a node and its predecessors while creating bayesian network?
a) Functionally dependent
b) Dependant
c) Conditionally independent
d) Both Conditionally dependant & Dependant
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Artificial Intelligence.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Artificial Intelligence.
To practice all areas of Artificial Intelligence, here is complete set of 250+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Artificial Intelligence.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Artificial Intelligence Questions & Answers – Probability Notation» Next - Artificial Intelligence Questions and Answers – Fuzzy Logic 
