1. Which search agent operates by interleaving computation and action?
a) Offline search
b) Online search
c) Breadth-first search
d) Depth-first search
b
2. What is called an exploration problem?
a) State and actions are unknown to the agent
b) State and actions are known to the agent
c) Only actions are known to agent
d) None of the mentioned
a
3. Which are necessary for an agent to solve an online search problem?
a) Actions
b) Step-cost function
c) Goal-test
d) All of the mentioned
d
4. When do we call the states are safely explorable?
a) A goal state is unreachable from any state
b) A goal state is denied access
c) A goal state is reachable from every state
d) None of the mentioned
c
5. In which state spaces does the online-dfs-agent will work?
a) Irreversible state spaces
b) Reversible state spaces
c) Searchable state spaces
d) All of the mentioned
b
6. Which of the following algorithm is online search algorithm?
a) Breadth-first search algorithm
b) Depth-first search algorithm
c) Hill-climbing search algorithm
d) None of the mentioned
c
7. Which search algorithm will use limited amount of memory?
a) RBFS
b) SMA*
c) Hill-climbing search algorithm
d) Both RBFS & SMA*
d
8. What is meant by simulated annealing in artificial intelligence?
a) Returns an optimal solution when there is a proper cooling schedule
b) Returns an optimal solution when there is no proper cooling schedule
c) It will not return an optimal solution when there is a proper cooling schedule
d) None of the mentioned
a
9. How the new states are generated in genetic algorithm?
a) Composition
b) Mutation
c) Cross-over
d) Both Mutation & Cross-over
d
10. Which method is effective for escaping from local minima?
a) Updating heuristic estimate
b) Reducing heuristic estimate
c) Eliminating heuristic estimate
d) None of the mentioned
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Artificial Intelligence.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Artificial Intelligence.
To practice all areas of Artificial Intelligence, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Artificial Intelligence.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Artificial Intelligence Questions and Answers – Intelligent Agents and Environment» Next - Artificial Intelligence Questions & Answers – Agent Architecture 
