1. Which is a refutation complete inference procedure for propositional logic?
a) Clauses
b) Variables
c) Propositional resolution
d) Proposition
c
2. What kind of clauses are available in Conjunctive Normal Form?
a) Disjunction of literals
b) Disjunction of variables
c) Conjunction of literals
d) Conjunction of variables
a
3. What is the condition of literals in variables?
a) Existentially quantified
b) Universally quantified
c) Quantified
d) None of the mentioned
b
4. Which can be converted to inferred equivalent CNF sentence?
a) Every sentence of propositional logic
b) Every sentence of inference
c) Every sentence of first-order logic
d) All of the mentioned
c
5. Which sentence will be unsatisfiable if the CNF sentence is unsatisfiable?
a) Search statement
b) Reading statement
c) Replaced statement
d) Original statement
d
6. Which rule is equal to the resolution rule of first-order clauses?
a) Propositional resolution rule
b) Inference rule
c) Resolution rule
d) None of the mentioned
a
7. At which state does the propositional literals are complementary?
a) If one variable is less
b) If one is the negation of the other
c) All of the mentioned
d) None of the mentioned
b
8. What is meant by factoring?
a) Removal of redundant variable
b) Removal of redundant literal
c) Addition of redundant literal
d) Addition of redundant variable
b
9. What will happen if two literals are identical?
a) Remains the same
b) Added as three
c) Reduced to one
d) None of the mentioned
c
10. When the resolution is called as refutation-complete?
a) Sentence is satisfiable
b) Sentence is unsatisfiable
c) Sentence remains the same
d) None of the mentioned
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Artificial Intelligence.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Artificial Intelligence.
To practice all areas of Artificial Intelligence, here is complete set of 250+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Artificial Intelligence.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Artificial Intelligence Questions & Answers – Propositional Logic» Next - Artificial Intelligence Questions & Answers – Forward Chaining 
