1. What is the action of task environment in artificial intelligence?
a) Problem
b) Solution
c) Agent
d) Observation
a
2. What is the expansion if PEAS in task environment?
a) Peer, Environment, Actuators, Sense
b) Perceiving, Environment, Actuators, Sensors
c) Performance, Environment, Actuators, Sensors
d) None of the mentioned
c
3. What kind of observing environments are present in artificial intelligence?
a) Partial
b) Fully
c) Learning
d) Both Partial & Fully
d
4. What kind of environment is strategic in artificial intelligence?
a) Deterministic
b) Rational
c) Partial
d) Stochastic
a
5. What kind of environment is crossword puzzle?
a) Static
b) Dynamic
c) Semi Dynamic
d) None of the mentioned
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. What kind of behavior does the stochastic environment posses?
a) Local
b) Deterministic
c) Rational
d) Primary
a
7. Which is used to select the particular environment to run the agent?
a) Environment creator
b) Environment Generator
c) Both Environment creator & Generator
d) None of the mentioned
b
8. Which environment is called as semi dynamic?
a) Environment does not change with the passage of time
b) Agent performance changes
c) Environment will be changed
d) Environment does not change with the passage of time, but Agent performance changes
d
9. Where does the performance measure is included?
a) Rational agent
b) Task environment
c) Actuators
d) Sensor
b
10. Which is used to provide the feedback to the learning element?
a) Critic
b) Actuators
c) Sensor
d) None of the mentioned
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Artificial Intelligence.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Artificial Intelligence.
To practice all areas of Artificial Intelligence, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Artificial Intelligence.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Artificial Intelligence Questions & Answers – Agent Architecture» Next - Artificial Intelligence Questions and Answers – Problem Solving 
