1. Which algorithm is used for solving temporal probabilistic reasoning?
a) Hill-climbing search
b) Hidden markov model
c) Depth-first search
d) Breadth-first search
b
2.  How does the state of the process is described in HMM?
a) Literal
b) Single random variable
c) Single discrete random variable
d) None of the mentioned
c
3. What are the possible values of the variable?
a) Variables
b) Literals
c) Discrete variable
d) Possible states of the world
d
4. Where does the additional variables are added in HMM?
a) Temporal model
b) Reality model
c) Probability model
d) All of the mentioned
a
5. Which allows for a simple and matrix implementation of all the basic algorithm?
a) HMM
b) Restricted structure of HMM
c) Temporary model
d) Reality model
b
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Where does the Hidden Markov Model is used?
a) Speech recognition
b) Understanding of real world
c) Both Speech recognition & Understanding of real world
d) None of the mentioned
a
7. Which variable can give the concrete form to the representation of the transition model?
a) Single variable
b) Discrete state variable
c) Random variable
d) Both Single & Discrete state variable
d
8. Which algorithm works by first running the standard forward pass to compute?
a) Smoothing
b) Modified smoothing
c) HMM
d) Depth-first search algorithm
b
9. Which reveals an improvement in online smoothing?
a) Matrix formulation
b) Revelation
c) HMM
d) None of the mentioned
a
10. Which suggests the existence of an efficient recursive algorithm for online smoothing?
a) Matrix
b) Constant space
c) Constant time
d) None of the mentioned
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Artificial Intelligence.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Artificial Intelligence.
To practice all areas of Artificial Intelligence, here is complete set of 250+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Artificial Intelligence.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Artificial Intelligence Questions and Answers – Fuzzy Logic» Next - Artificial Intelligence Questions and Answers – Expert Systems 
