1. What is Maintainability?
a) The ease with which the aircraft can be fixed
b) The ease with which the aircraft can sustain damage
c) Vulnerability
d) RCS detection
a
2. R&M are measured in?
a) Maintenance man-hours per flight hour
b) Vulnerable area
c) RCS of system
d) Maintenance and research
a
3. What is the Major Key parameter of maintainability?
a) Accessibility
b) Survival
c) RCS
d) Vulnerability
a
4. Which of the following is correct?
a) Large doors should be provided for the avionics system
b) Avionics systems should be not accessible at all
c) Accessible parts cannot be considered maintainability
d) Lift is always same as weight during ground maintenance
a
5. Best access should be given to components which require often maintenance.
a) True
b) False
a
6. Engine access doors should be such that?
a) They allow most of the engine to be exposed for maintenance
b) Only tiny part of engine is exposed during maintenance
c) They don’t allow maintenance at all
d) No provision is made for them; we need to dissemble the whole engine
a
7. Which of the following can be considered as the worst feature of an aircraft in terms of maintainability?
a) Requirements of removing number of major structural elements
b) Easily reachable parts
c) Easily accessible parts
d) More accessibility is provided for components
a
8. What is the goal of preventive maintenance?
a) To reduce breakdowns of critical equipment
b) To increase breakdowns of critical equipment
c) Increase equipment failure
d) Not to provide maintenance at a given period of time
a
9. What is corrective maintenance?
a) Maintenance of equipment after failure or break down
b) Maintenance before break down
c) Pre break down maintenance
d) Scheduled maintenance
a
10. What is preventive maintenance?
a) Maintenance done before breakdown of component
b) Unscheduled maintenance
c) Same as corrective maintenance
d) Not a valid type of maintenance
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Aircraft Design.
To practice all areas of Aircraft Design, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Aircraft Design Questions and Answers – Configuration Layout – Producibility Considerations» Next - Aircraft Design Questions and Answers – Crew Station 
