1. Which of the following applications where MAF is used?
a) Finishing of inner surfaces
b) Polishing of balls and rollers
c) Chamfering and deburring of gears
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. Diamond abrasives used for finishing operation results in which type of surface defects?
a) Deep pits
b) Surface scratches
c) Micro cracks
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. Which of the following conditions is/are not suitable for finishing of ceramic balls?
a) Controlled force
b) Large abrasive sizes
c) Small abrasive sizes
d) Less harder abrasives
b
4. In MAF, ceramic balls and the bearing rollers are placed in between which components?
a) Abrasives and float
b) Drive shaft and float
c) Float and magnets
d) Magnets and abrasives
b
5. Polishing in Magnetic abrasive finishing is done, by which action of material removal?
a) Mechanical abrasion
b) Mechanical erosion
c) Chemical corrosion
d) Material vaporization
a
6. State whether the following statement is true or false regarding MAF.
“As the forces exerted on the rollers are very small, polishing actions takes place very finely.”
a) True
b) False
a
7. For obtaining a better finish using Magnetic abrasive finishing, tubes are rotated at which speeds?
a) Very low
b) Low
c) Medium
d) Very High
d
8. Which of the following is an advantage of MAF over Electrolytic finishing?
a) Disposing of electrolyte
b) Cost effective
c) More flexible
d) More accuracy
a
9. State whether the following statement is true or false about Magnetic abrasive finishing.
“Mirror finishing, removed burrs with lowering the accuracy of the shape are achieved by MAF.”
a) True
b) False
b
10. What are the other applications where Magnetic abrasive finishing can be used?
a) Removal of oxide layers
b) Removal of protective coatings
c) Chamfering
d) All of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Advanced Machining.
To practice all areas of Advanced Machining Processes for Experienced people, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – MAF – Process parameters and MRR» Next - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – Chemical Milling – Introduction 
