1. If electro chemical machining is applied under appropriate conditions, how much amount of health dangers can occur?
a) Small amount
b) Limited amount
c) Large amount
d) Very large amount
b
2. Which of the following are some of the bad impacts on environment while using ECM?
a) Electrolyte splashing
b) Toxic gases release
c) Precipitation of solid matters
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. Which of the following parts of the body can be contaminated while using ECM?
a) Skin
b) Eyes
c) Skin & Eyes
d) None of the mentioned
c
4. During deburring and die sinking which of the following electrolyte gives high surface quality and accuracy?
a) NaNO3
b) HNO3
c) NaCl
d) All of the mentioned
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
5. Dissolution of metal containing chrome results in which of the toxic compounds?
a) Toxic chromate
b) Ammonia
c) Toxic chromate & Ammonia
d) None of the mentioned
c
6. Slurries mixing with toxic compounds produce, which of the following?
a) Solid precipitates
b) Liquid solutions
c) All of the mentioned
d) None of the mentioned
a
7. What should be done to the electrolyte with solid matter?
a) Can be reused
b) Disposed off
c) No disposing is necessary
d) All of the mentioned
b
8. State whether the following statement is true or false regarding the environmental impacts of ECM.
“In ECM, accumulation of toxic compounds is due to nitrate reduction at tool cathode.”
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Advanced Machining Processes.
To practice all areas of Advanced Machining Processes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – ECM-Advantages and Disadvantages» Next - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – Electro Chemical Drilling 
