1. Which of the following are the limitations of Chemical milling process?
a) Disposal of chemicals
b) Limited scribing accuracy
c) Surface imperfections
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. What is the value of shallow cuts obtained on sheets and plates, when we use CHM?
a) 3.83 mm
b) 6.39 mm
c) 12.27 mm
d) 20.32 mm
c
3. Hand masking, scribing and stripping can be difficult, due to which of the following factors?
a) Time consuming
b) Repetitive
c) Tedious
d) All of the mentioned
d
4. Which type of metallurgical surfaces are needed in Chemical milling process?
a) Homogenous
b) Heterogeneous
c) Mixture
d) None of the mentioned
a
5. Porous castings yield, which type of surfaces in Chemical milling process?
a) Uniform surfaces
b) Even surfaces
c) Uneven surfaces
d) None of the mentioned
c
6. State whether the following statement regarding the limitations of CHM.
“Welded areas etch, at a rate that is same as base metal.”
a) True
b) False
b
7. The absence of residual stresses on the chemically machined surfaces can produce __________ strength.
a) Favorable fatigue
b) Unfavorable fatigue
c) Constructive fatigue
d) None of the mentioned
b
8. Which of the following, indicate the accuracy of scribing by Chemical milling process?
a) Unlimited
b) Boundless
c) Infinite
d) None of the mentioned
d
9. Which of the following are the other limitations of Chemical milling process?
a) Hydrogen pickup
b) Intergranular attack
c) Complex designs becoming expensive
d) All of the mentioned
d
10. Which of the following is not a limitation of Chemical milling process?
a) Steep tapers not practical
b) Low scrap rates
c) Less scribing accuracy
d) Deep narrow cuts
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Advanced Machining.
To practice all areas of Advanced Machining, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – CHM – Advantages» Next - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – CHM-Applications 
