1. Of the following material removal mechanisms, material is removed by which one in EP?
a) Electrode dissolution
b) Corrosion
c) Abrasion
d) Erosion
a
2. Which of the following come under the process parameters of the Electropolishing?
a) Work piece material and condition
b) Current density
c) Applied voltage
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. Current density of the EP process generally varies between which of the following values?
a) 0.0001 – 0.001 A/cm2
b) 0.005 – 1.8 A/cm2
c) 1.9 – 2.532 A/cm2
d) 3.523 – 4.23 A/cm2
b
4. Which of the following are the work piece materials that can be machined using Electropolishing?
a) Carbon steel
b) Alpha brass
c) Phosphor bronze
d) All of the mentioned
d
5. Which of the following electrolyte, can be used commonly for stainless steel, Cu, Ni and Mg?
a) HCLO4
b) H2PO4
c) H2SO4
d) HNO3
b
6. What is the electrolytic solution’s temperature when stainless steel is machined?
a) 50o C
b) 80o C
c) 120o C
d) 150o C
b
7. State whether the following statement is true or false regarding process parameters of EP.
“In EP, process parameters have a direct impact on surface quality and productivity of process.”
a) True
b) False
a
8. For machining of Cu material which of the following can be used as electrolytes?
a) H2PO4
b) H2PO4 and Na2CrO4
c) HCLO4
d) HNO3
a
9. In the following types of voltage, which one best suites EP process?
a) Randomly Fluctuating
b) Constant
c) Periodically fluctuating
d) None of the mentioned
b
10. State whether the following statement is true or false regarding process parameters of EP.
“In EP, high current densities are used for anodic dissolution.”
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Advanced Machining.
To practice all areas of Advanced Machining, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – Electro Polishing-Introduction» Next - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – EP-Applications and Limitations 
