1. Which of the following components, come under machining system of Magnetic Abrasive finishing?
a) Rotatory spindle
b) Oscillating Magnets
c) Holding chuck
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. Which of the following materials can be machined using Magnetic Abrasive finishing?
a) Alloy steels
b) Ceramic materials
c) Iron materials
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. State whether the following statement is true or false about Magnetic abrasive finishing.
“Vibratory motion that is axial, is introduced in the magnetic field by the oscillation of magnetic poles.”
a) True
b) False
a
4. Which of the following material/s is/are used to hold the abrasives, in MAF?
a) Nonmagnetic materials
b) Ferro magnetic materials
c) Ceramic materials
d) None of the mentioned
b
5. What is the other name of ferromagnetic material used for holding the abrasives in MAF?
a) Magnetic abrasive conglomerate
b) Magnetic abrasive holder
c) Magnetic abrasive container
d) Magnetic abrasive ampule
a
Join [email protected]
6. What are the sizes magnetic abrasive conglomerates required in the machining system of MAF?
a) 1 – 10 microns
b) 20 – 50 microns
c) 50 – 100 microns
d) 100 – 200 microns
c
7. What are the size ranges of the abrasives used in Magnetic abrasive finishing?
a) 0.1 to 1 microns
b) 1 to 10 microns
c) 10 to 100 microns
d) 100 to 1000 microns
b
8. Which of the following are commonly used magnetic materials in finishing process?
a) Iron and iron oxides
b) Nickel and cobalt
c) Steel and stainless steel
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. Which of the following are commonly used abrasive materials in finishing process of MAF?
a) Silicon Carbide
b) Aluminium Oxide
c) Cubic Boron Nitride
d) All of the mentioned
d
10. Which of the following materials combine to form the magnetic abrasive brush in MAF?
a) Work piece
b) Magnetic and abrasive particles
c) Magnets
d) All of the mentioned
d
11. In order to achieve uniform circulation of abrasives, the magnetic abrasives are undergone through which of the following?
a) Stirring
b) Oscillation
c) Vibration
d) All of the mentioned
a
12. Magnetic lines of force flows on which part of the work piece material?
a) Through the work piece
b) Over the surface
c) Above the work piece
d) Below the work piece
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Advanced Machining.
To practice all areas of Advanced Machining, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – Magnetic Abrasive Finishing – Introduction» Next - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – MAF – Process parameters and MRR 
