1. In this type of machining, machining forces are controlled by which of the following fields?
a) Magnetic field
b) Electric field
c) Radiative field
d) None of the mentioned
a
2. Which of the following type of tools, are required for magnetic field assisted polishing?
a) Rigid tools
b) Expensive tools
c) Magnetic tools
d) Ultra precession tools
c
3. Which of the following is not a magnetic field assisted machining process?
a) Electro-plating process
b) Magnetic abrasive finishing
c) Magnetic float polishing
d) All of the mentioned
a
4. In the advanced machining processes, what is the full form of MAF?
a) Magnet Automated Finishing
b) Magnetic Abrasive Finishing
c) Magnet Assisted Floating
d) Magnetic Association for Floating
b
5. In Magnetic abrasive finishing, which of the following particles do not contribute to the material removal?
a) Abrasive particles
b) Magnetic particles
c) Non-magnetic particles
d) All of the mentioned
c
6. Which of the following motions are opted, in order to carry on with the Magnetic abrasive finishing?
a) Rotary motion
b) Oscillatory motion
c) Vibratory motion
d) All of the mentioned
d
7. Magnetic Abrasive finishing is used for which of the following application/s?
a) Surface finishing
b) Cutting
c) Drilling
d) Boring
a
8. Which is the place, where Magnetic field assisted polishing was invented?
a) The United States of America
b) The United Arab Emirates
c) Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
d) Japan
a
9. Which of the following processes cannot be machined using Magnetic abrasive finishing?
a) Surface finishing
b) Surface polishing
c) Hole Drilling
d) None of the mentioned
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Advanced Machining.
To practice all areas of Advanced Machining, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – Ice Jet Machining» Next - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – MAF – Machining System 
