1. In advanced machining processes, what is the full form of CHM?
a) Chemical machining
b) Chemical manufacturing
c) Chemical milling
d) None of the mentioned
c
2. Of the following, which mechanism is used for the removal of material using Chemical milling process?
a) Material Vaporization
b) Chemical dissolution
c) Mechanical erosion
d) Mechanical abrasion
b
3. Which of the following solutions cannot be used as chemical reactive solution in CHM?
a) Acidic solution
b) Alkaline solution
c) Neutral solution
d) None of the mentioned
c
4. By using Chemical machining, which of the following can be produced?
a) Pockets
b) Contours
c) Slots
d) All of the mentioned
d
5. Pre cleaning is done on the work piece surface in order to achieve, which of the following factors?
a) To provide good adhesion
b) To provide clean surface
c) To assure the absence of contaminants
d) All of the mentioned
d
6. Special coatings applied on work piece materials in order to protect them from chemical reaction are known as _________
a) Maskants
b) Protective coverings
c) Protective varnishing
d) None of the mentioned
a
7. Type of mask depends on which of the factor/s, given below?
a) Size of work piece
b) Number of parts
c) Desired resolution
d) All of the mentioned
d
8. During Chemical milling, depth of etch is controlled by which factor of immersion?
a) Time
b) Mask method
c) Mask area
d) None of the mentioned
a
9. What is the range of reagent temperatures used for chemical dissolution in CHM?
a) 12ᵒC to 35ᵒC
b) 37ᵒC to 85ᵒC
c) 90ᵒC to 101ᵒC
d) 121ᵒC to 142ᵒC
b
10. In Chemical milling, excessive flow of chemical reagent results in which of the following defects?
a) Channellings
b) Grooves
c) Ridges
d) All of the mentioned
d
11. State whether the following statement about Chemical milling is true or false.
“At higher temperatures, faster etching rates occur in Chemical milling.”
a) True
b) False
a
12. Of the following, which ratio defines the etch factor?
a) Etching depth to undercut
b) Undercut to etching depth
c) Undercut to mask area
d) Mask area to undercut
b
13. CHM cannot eliminate which of the following defects?
a) Irregularities and dents
b) Surface scratches
c) Waviness
d) All of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Advanced Machining.
To practice all areas of Advanced Machining, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – MAF – Applications» Next - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – CHM – Tooling for CHM 
