1. Which of the following electrodes are used for machining spherical surfaces in Electro discharge machining?
a) Tubular electrodes
b) Flat electrodes
c) Cuboidal electrodes
d) All of the mentioned
a
2. What are the values of dimensional accuracy obtained while machining spherical surfaces?
a) ± 1 µm
b) ± 3 µm
c) ± 5 µm
d) ± 7 µm
a
3. What are the surface roughness values obtained while machining spherical surfaces using Electro discharge machining?
a) <0.1 µm
b) <0.3 µm
c) <0.5 µm
d) <0.7 µm
a
4. Which motion of tool is used for machining spherical surfaces in Electro discharge machining?
a) Oscillatory
b) Vibratory
c) Rotary
d) All of the mentioned
c
5. Which type of electrodes are used for milling application in Electro discharge machining process?
a) Tubular type electrodes
b) Cylindrical type electrodes
c) Flat type electrodes
d) Spherical type electrodes
b
Join [email protected]
6. Which type of cavities can be machined using milling process by Electro discharge machining?
a) Complex cavities
b) Simple cavities
c) Simple & Complex cavities
d) None of the mentioned
c
7. The simple electrodes are rotated at which speed for milling of work pieces in Electro discharge machining?
a) Very low
b) Low
c) Medium
d) High
d
8. What happens to the dielectric flushing while milling tool is rotated at a high speed in EDM?
a) Improved
b) Worsen
c) Reduced
d) All of the mentioned
a
9. State whether the following statement is true or false regarding the applications of EDM.
“In EDM, milling process can machine complex shapes with sharp corners.”
a) True
b) False
b
10. Which of the following are the steps included in the die sinking process of EDM?
a) CAD of electrode
b) Electrode manufacturing
c) Programming for die sinking
d) All of the mentioned
d
11. Wire EDM is a special form of Electro discharge machining which contains __________ electrode.
a) Continuously moving
b) Periodically moving
c) Discontinuously moving
d) All of the mentioned
a
12. Which path of the components in wire EDM determines the path to be machined?
a) Horizontal worktable movement
b) Vertical worktable movement
c) Horizontal & Vertical worktable movement
d) None of the mentioned
a
13. Which of the following materials are machined using Wire Electro discharge machining?
a) Polycrystalline diamond
b) Cubic Boronitride
c) Matrix composites
d) All of the mentioned
d
14. How much amount of burr is produce when we use Wire Electro discharge machining for machining of work pieces?
a) 10%
b) 20%
c) No burr
d) Small amount
c
15. Which of the following industries use wire EDM for different applications?
a) Chemical industry
b) Aerospace industry
c) Automobile industry
d) All of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Advanced Machining.
To practice all areas of Advanced Machining for campus interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – EDM-Applications – 1» Next - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – EDM-Applications – 3 
