1. What is the approximate value of faraday’s constant?
a) 65,200 C
b) 53,800 C
c) 96,500 C
d) 85,600 C
c
2. In the following ratios of metal dissolved amounts, which one represent the current efficiency?
a) Observed to theoretical
b) Theoretical to observed
c) All of the mentioned
d) None of the mentioned
a
3. Apparent current efficiency is due to which of the following factors?
a) Choice of wrong valence
b) Passivation of anodic surface
c) Gas evolution at anode
d) All of the mentioned
d
4. State whether the following statement is true or false regarding the working principles.
“In ECM, grain boundary attacks remove the grains through electrolytic forces.”
a) True
b) False
a
5. In ECM, gap increase proportional to which relation of time below?
a) Square of time
b) Square root of time
c) Cube of time
d) Cube root of time
b
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. At constant feed rates what happens to gap thickness?
a) Increases
b) Decreases
c) Becomes constant
d) None of the mentioned
c
7. At constant gap thickness material removal becomes equal to feed rate. What is this gap called?
a) Equal gap
b) Equilibrium gap
c) Unique gap
d) Narrow gap
b
8. If the gap thickness is greater than equilibrium thickness what will be MRR?
a) MRR is less than feed rate
b) MRR is greater than feed rate
c) MRR is equal to feed rate
d) None of the mentioned
a
9. During ECM drilling, decrease in feed rates lead to which type of machining gaps?
a) Wider
b) Narrow
c) Small
d) None of the mentioned
a
10. Too small gap causes which of the following effects?
a) Sparking
b) Short circuit
c) Sparking & Short circuit
d) None of the mentioned
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Advanced Machining.
To practice all areas of Advanced Machining for quizzes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – ECM – Equipment – 2» Next - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – ECM-Process Characteristics – 1 
