1. Which of the following metals can be machined using the Chemical milling process?
a) Copper
b) Zinc
c) Steel
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. What is the range, between which, the depth of cut in Chemical milling varies?
a) 0.13 – 0. 84 mm
b) 0.93 – 1.56 mm
c) 2.54 – 12.27 mm
d) 13.3 – 104.56 mm
c
3. Which of the following non-metallic materials can be machined using the Chemical milling process?
a) Plastics
b) Glass
c) Ceramics
d) All of the mentioned
d
4. Which of the following is the most popular application for weight reduction of aerospace components?
a) Shallow cuts
b) Deep cuts
c) Very deep cuts
d) None of the mentioned
a
5. How many designs can be machined from the same sheet in Chemical milling?
a) Only one
b) Two
c) Three
d) Multiple
d
6. CHM is used to thin out walls, web and ribs of parts that have been produces by which of the following processes?
a) Forging
b) Casting
c) Sheet metal forming
d) All of the mentioned
d
7. Removal of sharp burrs come under which application of Chemical milling process?
a) Deep cuts
b) Multiple part machining
c) Improving surface characteristics
d) None of the mentioned
c
8. Which of the following can be eliminated from the surfaces using Chemical milling?
a) Alpha case from Ti-forgings
b) Decarburized layer from low cast alloys
c) Recast layer from machined parts
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. CHM is used to remove the thin surfaces from forgings and castings, at which time of process?
a) After penetration inspection
b) Prior to penetration inspection
c) At the starting of process
d) At the end of process
b
10. State whether the following statement is true or false regarding the applications of CHM.
“Removal of thin surfaces, prior to inspection, is done for detection of hidden defects.”
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Advanced Machining.
To practice all areas of Advanced Machining, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – CHM-Limitations» Next - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – Photo Chemical Millling-Introduction 
