1. Which of the following is not the feed mechanism of the abrasives in AWJM?
a) Side feed
b) Cross feed
c) Central feed
d) All of the mentioned
b
2. In Abrasive water jet machining, how are the abrasives fed into the water jet stream?
a) Suspension
b) Injection
c) All of the mentioned
d) None of the mentioned
c
3. What is the use of delivery system in the machining system of AWJM?
a) To deliver colloidal solution
b) To pump water
c) To fed abrasives
d) None of the mentioned
b
4. Of the following components, which one does not come under the machining system of AWJM?
a) Water delivery system
b) Transducer
c) Cutting nozzles
d) Mixing chambers
b
5. In Abrasive water jet machining, intensifier is used to deliver which type of pressure?
a) Very low pressure
b) Low pressure
c) Medium pressure
d) High pressure
d
6. In mixing chamber of AWJM, which of the following are mixed?
a) Abrasives and colloidal solution
b) Abrasives and water jet
c) Colloidal and water jet
d) None of the mentioned
b
7. Of the following, which one is a type of suspension in AWJM?
a) Direct pumping
b) Indirect pumping
c) Bypass pumping
d) All of the mentioned
d
8. In machining system of AWJM, mixing chamber is immediately followed by which of the following component?
a) Focusing tube
b) Cutting Nozzle
c) Intensifier
d) Water delivery
a
9. Which of the following energies are absorbed using the catchers in Abrasive water jet machining?
a) Pressure energy
b) Kinetic energy of abrasives
c) Residual energy
d) All of the mentioned
c
10. Which of the following are different types of catchers used in AWJM?
a) Water basin type
b) Submerged steel balls type
c) TiB2 type
d) All of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Advanced Machining.
To practice all areas of Advanced Machining, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – Abrasive Water Jet Machining – Introduction» Next - Advanced Machining Questions and Answers – AWJM – Process Capabilities 
