1.	The source voltage of a 75ohm transmission line is given by 150V. Find the load current.
a)	0.5
b)	2
c)	4
d)	1
b
2.	The guided terminations are used to
a)	Increase reflection
b)	Increase transmission
c)	Eliminate reflection loss
d)	Eliminate attenuation
c
3.	Which type of wave does the resonant cavity produce?
a)	Standing waves
b)	Guided waves
c)	Transmitted waves
d)	Attenuated waves
a
4.	Which of the following parameter cannot be calculated from the standing waves?
a)	Peak voltage and peak current
b)	SWR
c)	Reflection and transmission coefficients
d)	Attenuation constant
d
5.	For efficient transmission, the characteristic impedance of the transmission line has to be
a)	50 ohm
b)	75 ohm
c)	Either 50 or 75 ohm
d)	Neither 50 nor 75 ohm
c
6.	The cavity resonators are used in the klystron amplifiers for
a)	Amplifying RF signals
b)	Amplifying microwave signals
c)	Attenuating RF signals
d)	Attenuating microwave signals
b
7.	The cavity resonators used in the reflex klystron oscillators are for
a)	Generating RF signals
b)	Generating microwave signals
c)	Amplifying RF signals
d)	Amplifying microwave signals
b
8.	One of the applications of the cavity resonators is duplexer in RADAR systems. State true/false.
a)	True
b)	False
a
9.	Cavity wave meters are used to measure which parameter of the wave?
a)	Wavelength
b)	Reflection factor
c)	Phase
d)	Frequency
d
10.	The waveguides are terminated by the procedure of
a)	Trimming
b)	Polishing
c)	Tapering
d)	Pruning
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Electromagnetic Theory.
To practice basic questions and answers on all areas of Electromagnetic Theory, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Electromagnetic Theory Questions and Answers – Phase and Group Velocity» Next - Electromagnetic Theory Questions and Answers – Transients 
