1.	The best definition of polarisation is
a)	Orientation of dipoles in random direction
b)	Electric dipole moment per unit volume
c)	Orientation of dipole moments
d)	Change in polarity of every dipole
b
2.	Calculate the polarisation vector of the material which has 100 dipoles per unit volume in a volume of 2 units.
a)	200
b)	50
c)	400
d)	0.02
a
3.	Polarizability is defined as the
a)	Product of dipole moment and electric field
b)	Ratio of dipole moment to electric field
c)	Ratio of electric field to dipole moment
d)	Product of dielectric constant and dipole moment
b
4.	Calculate the energy stored per unit volume in a dielectric medium due to polarisation when P = 9 units and E = 8 units.
a)	1.77
b)	2.25
c)	36
d)	144
c
5.	Identify which type of polarisation depends on temperature.
a)	Electronic
b)	Ionic
c)	Orientational
d)	Interfacial
c
6.	Calculate the polarisation vector in air when the susceptibility is 5 and electric field is 12 units.
a)	3
b)	2
c)	60
d)	2.4
c
7.	In isotropic materials, which of the following quantities will be independent of the direction?
a)	Permittivity
b)	Permeability
c)	Polarisation
d)	Polarizability
a
8.	The total polarisation of a material is the
a)	Product of all types of polarisation
b)	Sum of all types of polarisation
c)	Orientation directions of the dipoles
d)	Total dipole moments in the material
b
9.	In the given types of polarisation, which type exists in the semiconductor?
a)	Electronic
b)	Ionic
c)	Orientational
d)	Interfacial or space charge
d
10.	 Solids do not have which type of polarisation?
a)	Ionic
b)	Orientational
c)	Interfacial
d)	Electronic
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Electromagnetic Theory.
To practice all areas of Electromagnetic Theory, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Electromagnetic Theory Questions and Answers – Displacement and Conduction Current» Next - Electromagnetic Theory Questions and Answers- Dielectric Strength and Constant 
