1. Copper behaves as a
a) Conductor always
b) Conductor or dielectric depending on the applied electric field strength
c) Conductor or dielectric depending on the frequency
d) Conductor or dielectric depending on the electric current density
a
2. In a good conductor the phase relation between the tangential components of electric E and the magnetic field H is as follows
a) E and H are in phase
b) E and H are out of phase
c) H leads E by 90
d) E leads H by 45
d
3. For an electromagnetic wave incident from one medium to a second medium, total internal reflection takes place when
a) Angle of incidence is equal to the Brewster angle with E field perpendicular to the plane of incidence
b) Angle of incidence is equal to the Brewster angle with E field parallel to the plane of incidence
c) Angle of incidence is equal to the critical angle with the wave moving from the denser to rarer medium
d) Angle of incidence is equal to the critical angle with the wave moving from the rarer to denser medium
c
4. For maximum power transfer, a lossless transmission line 50 ohm is to be matched to a resistive load impedance of 100 ohm. The characteristic impedance of the wavelength/4 transformer is
a) 70.7
b) 50
c) 100
d) Infinity
a
5. In an impedance Smith chart , a clockwise movement along a constant resistance circle gives rise to
a) Decrease in reactance
b) Increase in reactance
c) No change in reactance
d) No change in impedance
b
6. A transmission line is distortionless if
a) RL = 1/GC
b) RL = GC
c) LG = RC
d) RG = LC
c
7. A lossless line having 50 ohm characteristic impedance and length wavelength/4 is short circuited at one end connected to an ideal voltage source of 1V at the other end. The current drawn from the voltage sources is
a) 0
b) 0.02
c) Infinity
d) 50
a
8. The capacitance per unit length and the characteristic impedance of a lossless transmission line are C and Z respectively. The velocity of a travelling wave on the transmission line is
a) ZC
b) 1/ZC
c) Z/C
d) C/Z
b
9. The minimum distance of the stub from the load side is 5 cm. Calculate the guided wavelength of the transmission line.
a) 5 cm
b) 2.5 cm
c) 10 cm
d) 1.25 cm
c
10. One end of a lossless transmission line having the characteristic impedance of 75 ohm and length of 1 cm is short circuited. At 3 GHz, the input impedance at the other end of the transmission line is
a) 0
b) Resistive
c) Inductive
d) Capacitive
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Electromagnetic Theory.
To practice all areas of Electromagnetic Theory, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Tricky Electromagnetic Theory Questions and Answers 
