1.	The electrostatic energy in an electric field does not depend on which of the following?
a)	Magnitude of charges
b)	Permittivity
c)	Applied electric field
d)	Flux lines
c
2.	Calculate the energy in an electric field with flux density 6 units and field intensity of 4 units.
a)	12
b)	24
c)	36
d)	48
a
3.	Calculate the energy in an electric field with permittivity of 56 and field intensity of 36π(in μJ)
a)	3.16
b)	5.16
c)	7.16
d)	9.16
a
4.	Equipotential surface is a
a)	Real surface
b)	Complex surface
c)	Imaginary surface
d)	Not existing surface
c
5.	The work done in moving a test charge from one point to another in an equipotential surface is zero. State True/False.
a)	True
b)	False
a
6.	When curl of a path is zero, the field is said to be conservative. State True/False.
a)	True
b)	False
a
∫ E.dl = 0. In other words the work done in a closed path will always be zero. Fields having this property is called conservative or lamellar fields.
7.	If the electric potential is given, which of the following cannot be calculated?
a)	Electrostatic energy
b)	Electric field intensity
c)	Electric flux density
d)	Permittivity
a
8.	Superconductors exhibit which of the following properties?
a)	Ferromagnetism
b)	Polarisation
c)	Diamagnetism
d)	Ferrimagnetism
c
9.	Debye is the unit used to measure
a)	Permittivity
b)	Electric dipole moment
c)	Magnetic dipole moment
d)	Susceptibility
b
10.	 Ceramic materials possess which of the following properties?
a)	Brittle and low dielectric constant
b)	Rigid and low dielectric constant
c)	Brittle and high dielectric constant
d)	Rigid and high dielectric constant
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Electromagnetic Theory.
To practice all areas of Electromagnetic Theory for Experienced people, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Electromagnetic Theory Questions and Answers – Electric Dipole» Next - Electromagnetic Theory Questions and Answers – Electrostatic Properties 
