1. Which of these flows is numerically computed using panel method technique?
a) Compressible flow
b) Incompressible flow
c) Anelastic flow
d) Pseudo-incompressible flow
b
2. Which approximations are made in case of panel method in case of subsonic problems?
a) Quadrilateral panels with constant source strength
b) Curved panels with constant source strength
c) Triangular panels with constant sink
d) Quadrilateral panels with constant sink
a
3. In how many categories is the panel method grouped into?
a) 2
b) 3
c) 4
d) 6
a
4. State true or false. Mean-surface panel method is used in case of final design calculations to get accurate results.
a) True
b) False
b
5. Which of these panels is distributed over a non-lifting body to analyze three-dimensional flow?
a) Source panel
b) Sink panel
c) Vortex panel
d) Doublet panel
a
6. Which of these panels is distributed over a lifting body to analyze three-dimensional flow?
a) Source panel
b) Sink panel
c) Vortex panel
d) Both source and vortex panels
d
7. State true or false. In order to check if the net sum of contribution from all the elements is zero, we need to select a point on a panel.
a) True
b) False
a
8. Which of these distributions is required in the wake region of the lifting body?
a) Source
b) Dipole
c) Sink
d) Doublet
b
9. Which panels are used in case of higher-order panel method?
a) Quadrilateral panels
b) Curved panels
c) Triangular panels
d) Square panels
b
10. Who developed the panel method?
a) Hess and Smith
b) Ludwig Pradtl
c) Theodore Von Karman
d) Karl Wieghardt
a
11. Which of these flows can be modelled by the panel method?
a) Compressible flow
b) Rotational flow
c) Incompressible flow
d) Supersonic flow
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Aerodynamics.
To practice all areas of Aerodynamics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.  
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Aerodynamics Questions and Answers – Flow over Sphere» Next - Aerodynamics Questions and Answers – Helicopter Rotor and Notations 
