1. Which of the following ensures flow smoothly leaving the trailing edge given the right value of circulation?
a) Kutta Condition
b) Momentum Theorem
c) Angle of Attack
d) The Shape of the Airfoil
a
2. It is possible to have lift without friction (i.e. in an inviscid medium).
a) True
b) False
b
3. For an arbitrary inviscid and incompressible flow, with all the body forces zero, what is best described by the given sketch?
a) Boundary Layer Formation
b) Kelvin’s Circulation Theorem
c) Kutta Condition
d) Generation of Lift
b
4. Mathematically, what is meant by Kelvin’s Circulation Theorem for an inviscid and incompressible flow? (For the same set of fluid elements moving in a closed curve along with the fluid).
a) DΓ/Dt = 0
b) γ1 ≥ Γ2, where 1 is the upstream direction
c) Γ = -∮C1V.ds
d) Γ = 0
a
5. For which of the following  Kelvin’s theorem is applicable?
a) Flow with Viscous Stresses
b) Compressible Flow
c) Inviscid, Compressible Barotropic Flow
d) Flow with Non-Conservative Body Forces
c
Join [email protected]
6. Which type of the following flow is characterized by density being a single-valued function of pressure only?
a) Viscous Flow
b) Barotropic Flow
c) Inviscid Flow
d) Baroclinic Flow
b
7. A vortex sheet in the incompressible, inviscid fluid dies after some time.
a) True
b) False
b
8. For a fluid initially at rest, the formation of starting vortex implies ______
a) generation of lift
b) generation of circulation
c) generation of lift and circulation
d) no lift is produced
c
9. During the formation of starting vortex, for an airfoil starting from rest, which is the correct sequence of events? (TE: Trailing Edge)
a) Velocity becomes infinite at the TE > Unstable vortex sheet formed due to very high vorticity > High velocity gradient formed at TE which is pushed downstream > Flow starts to curl at the TE > Unstable vortex sheet curls to form point vortex
b) Velocity becomes infinite at the TE > High velocity gradient formed at TE which is pushed downstream > Unstable vortex sheet formed due to very high vorticity > Flow starts to curl at the TE > Unstable vortex sheet curls to form point vortex
c) Velocity becomes infinite at the TE > Flow starts to curl at the TE > Unstable vortex sheet formed due to very high vorticity > Unstable vortex sheet curls to form point vortex > High velocity gradient formed at TE which is pushed downstream >
d) Flow starts to curl at the TE > Velocity becomes infinite at the TE > High velocity gradient formed at TE which is pushed downstream > Unstable vortex sheet formed due to very high vorticity > Unstable vortex sheet curls to form point vortex
d
10. Generation of lift is accompanied by a starting vortex at the trailing edge. If the flow is inviscid, this will not happen. What reason can best describe this?
a) There is no boundary layer formation, hence no vorticity
b) Kutta Condition is enforced
c) Kelvin’s Theorem is violated
d) Starting Vortex dies off instantly
a
11. Which of these is a result of Kelvin’s Theorem is essentially?
a) Frozen Vortex Lines
b) Vorticity
c) Circulation
d) Lift
a
12. In reality, the starting vortex dies out. Why?
a) Lift becomes zero
b) At later times, Kelvin’s theorem is not applicable
c) Due to Viscosity
d) This assumption is wrong. Starting vortex never dies
c
13. Generation of lift over an airfoil and formation of starting vortex is correctly explained by which of these?
a) Kutta-Joukowski Theorem
b) Kutta Condition and Kelvin’s Theorem
c) Kutta-Joukowski Theorem and Kelvin’s Theorem
d) Kutta Condition and Helmholtz Theorem
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Aerodynamics.
To practice all areas of Aerodynamics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.  
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Aerodynamics Questions and Answers – Kelvin’s Circulation Theorem and the Starting Vortex – 2» Next - Aerodynamics Questions and Answers – The Symmetric Airfoil – 1 
