1. For which of these Mach numbers is flow considered to be hypersonic?
a) M < 1
b) M = 1
c) M > 5
d) 1 < M < 5
c
2. How is the shock layer in case of hypersonic flow?
a) Thin
b) Thick
c) Non existent
d) Increases with increasing Mach number
a
3. In hypersonic flow, the shock waves often merge with the viscous boundary layer.
a) True
b) False
a
4. How is the shock over a blunt body at hypersonic speed?
a) Conical
b) Curved
c) Diamond
d) Oblique
b
5. What is the entropy gradient at the nose region of a slender body at hypersonic flow?
a) Very high
b) Very low
c) Negligible
d) Infinity
a
6. What is viscous dissipation?
a) Loss of kinetic energy due to viscous effect
b) Loss of potential energy due to viscous effect
c) Increase in kinetic energy due to increase in temperature
d) Frictional drag
a
7. How does viscous dissipation affect temperature inside the boundary layer?
a) Increases
b) Decreases
c) No change
d) First increases, then decreases
a
8. Hypersonic boundary layers grow more rapidly compared to subsonic and supersonic boundary layers.
a) True
b) False
a
9. What is viscous interaction?
a) Interaction between viscous flow and boundary layer
b) Interaction between inviscid flow and boundary layer
c) Interaction between shock wave and inviscid flow
d) Interaction between shock wave and viscous flow inside boundary layer
b
10. Which of these surfaces is used for reentry vehicles at hypersonic speed?
a) Aluminum
b) Carbon
c) Ablative surface
d) Copper
c
11. What is the detrimental effect of high temperature hypersonic flow over a vehicle?
a) Communication blackout
b) Attitude problem
c) Altitude problem
d) Friction causing depletion of ablation
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Aerodynamics.
To practice all areas of Aerodynamics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Aerodynamics Questions and Answers – Cones at Angle of Attack» Next - Aerodynamics Questions and Answers – Mach Number Independence 
