1. Is Kutta-Joukowski theorem is fundamental theorem of aerodynamics?
a) True
b) False
a
2. Is Kutta-Joukowski theorem relate to lift?
a) False
b) True
b
3. Define circulation.
a) Line integral around a closed loop enclosing the airfoil
b) Line integral around an open loop enclosing the airfoil
c) Line integral around an in loop enclosing the airfoil
d) Line integral of airfoil
a
4. Define Kutta-Joukowski theorem.
a) Lift per unit span on the airfoil
b) Drag per unit span on the airfoil
c) Moment per unit span on the airfoil
d) Thrust per unit span on the airfoil
a
5. What is the angle of attack of lift producing airfoil?
a) Angle of attack less than zero
b) Angle of attack greater than zero
c) Angle of attack is zero
d) Angle of attack remains the same
b
6. How the fluid moves on the airfoil?
a) Lower surface
b) Upper and middle surface
c) Upper surface
d) Lower and upper surface
d
7. What is the condition for Kutta and Joukowski theorem?
a) Pressure and lift
b) Pressure and drag
c) Drag and lift
d) Lift and moment
a
8. What is the flow outside the airfoil?
a) Irrotational
b) Rotational
c) Circumferential
d) Constant
a
9. How rotating flow is induced?
a) Joint effect of airfoil
b) Joint effect of chord
c) Joint effect of camber
d) Joint effect of camber line
c
10. Kutta-Joukowski theorem refers to __________
a) two-dimensional flow around an airfoil
b) one-dimensional flow around an airfoil
c) three-dimensional flow around an airfoil
d) flows around an airfoil
a
11. What is the condition for rotational flow in Kutta-Joukowski theorem?
a) Small number of unsteady flow
b) Large number of unsteady flow
c) Large number of steady flow
d) Small number of steady flow
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Aerodynamics.
To practice all areas of Aerodynamics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.  
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Aerodynamics Questions and Answers – Lifting Flow over Cylinder» Next - Aerodynamics Questions and Answers – Nonlifting Flow over Arbitrary Bodies 
