1. What is a critical Mach number?
a) Mach number at which transonic flow is achieved on the surface
b) Mach number at which sonic flow is achieved on the surface
c) Mach number at which wake formation does not exist
d) Mach number at which the coefficient of lift is minimum
b
2. High speed subsonic aircrafts are designed with thick airfoil wings.
a) True
b) False
b
3. What is the reason for a sudden increase in drag beyond drag divergence?
a) Transonic region on top surface of the airfoil
b) Supersonic region on top and bottom region of the airfoil
c) Prandt- Glauert compressibility effect
d) The shape of the airfoil
b
4. What is the purpose of supercritical airfoil?
a) Reduce critical Mach number
b) Increase drag divergence Mach number
c) Reduce drag divergence Mach number
d) Increase lift of the airfoil at supersonic speed
b
5. How is supercritical airfoil different from the NACA 64 series airfoil?
a) Thinner airfoil
b) Less cambered
c) Flatter top surface
d) Flatter lower surface
c
6. Why does the trailing edge of a supercritical airfoil have a cusp-like shape?
a) Reduce drag
b) Counter highly negative camber at the front end
c) Counter highly positive camber at the front end
d) Increase fuel carrying capacity in the wing
b
7. Supercritical wings are characterized as high-lifting wings.
a) True
b) False
a
8. Why do cargo aircrafts make use of supercritical airfoil?
a) Better takeoff and landing performance
b) No vortex formation
c) More fuel carrying capacity in thicker airfoil
d) Thinner airfoil resulting in less wing weight
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Aerodynamics.
To practice all areas of Aerodynamics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Aerodynamics Questions and Answers – Prandtl-Glauert Compressibility» Next - Aerodynamics Questions and Answers – Application to Supersonic Airfoils 
