1. Which of these keywords are used to implement synchronization?
a) synchronize
b) syn
c) synch
d) synchronized
d
2. Which keyword is used for using the synchronization features defined by the Monitor class?
a) lock
b) synchronized
c) monitor
d) locked
a
3. What is synchronization in reference to a thread?
a) It’s a process of handling situations when two or more threads need access to a shared resource
b) It’s a process by which many threads are able to access the same shared resource simultaneously
c) It’s a process by which a method is able to access many different threads simultaneously
d) It’s a method that allows too many threads to access any information they require
a
4. Which method is called when a thread is blocked from running temporarily?
a) Pulse()
b) PulseAll()
c) Wait()
d) Both Pulse() & Wait()
c
5. What kind of exception is being thrown if Wait(), Pulse() or PulseAll() is called from code that is not within synchronized code?
a) System I/O Exception
b) DivideByZero Exception
c) SynchronizationLockException
d) All of the mentioned
c
6. What is mutex?
a) a mutually exclusive synchronization object
b) can be acquired by more than one thread at a time
c) helps in sharing of resource which can be used by one thread
d) all of the mentioned
a
7. What is Semaphore?
a) Grant more than one thread access to a shared resource at the same time
b) Useful when a collection of resources is being synchronized
c) Make use of a counter to control access to a shared resource
d) All of the mentioned
d
8. Which method is used to abort thread prior to it’s normal execution?
a) sleep()
b) terminate()
c) suspend()
d) Abort()
d
 public void Abort()
Abort() causes a ThreadAbortException to be thrown to the thread on which Abort() is called. This exception causes the thread to terminate.
9. Which of these statements is incorrect?
a) By multithreading CPU idle time is minimized, and we can take maximum use of it
b) By multitasking CPU idle time is minimized, and we can take maximum use of it
c) Two thread in Csharp can have same priority
d) A thread can exist only in two states, running and blocked
d
10. What is multithreaded programming?
a) It’s a process in which two different processes run simultaneously
b) It’s a process in which two or more parts of same process run simultaneously
c) It’s a process in which many different process are able to access same information
d) It’s a process in which a single process can access information from many sources
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – C# Programming Language.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in C# Programming Language.
To practice all areas of C# for Interviews, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on C#.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - C# Questions & Answers – Multithreaded Programming – 1» Next - C# Question & Answers – Iterators 
