1. Select the type of multitasking methods that exist:
a) process based
b) thread based
c) only process
d) both process & thread based
d
2. Choose the correct statement about process-based multitasking.
a) A feature that allows our computer to run two or more programs concurrently
b) A program that acts as a small unit of code that can be dispatched by the scheduler
c) Only A program that acts as a small unit of code that can be dispatched by the scheduler
d) Both A feature that allows our computer to run two or more programs concurrently & A program that acts as a small unit of code that can be dispatched by the scheduler
d
3. Choose the statements which indicate the differences between the thread based multitasking and process based multitasking.
a) Process-based multitasking handles the concurrent execution of programs
b) Process-based multitasking handles the concurrent execution of pieces of the same program
c) Thread-based multitasking handles the concurrent execution of programs
d) Thread-based multitasking deals with the concurrent execution of pieces of the same program
a
4. What is the advantage of the multithreading program?
a) Enables to utilize the idle and executing time present in most programs
b) Enables to utilize the idle time present in most programs
c) Both Enables to utilize the idle and executing time present in most programs & Enables to utilize the idle time present in most programs
d) Only Enables to utilize the idle time present in most programs
d
5. Select the two type of threads mentioned in the concept of multithreading:
a) foreground
b) background
c) only foreground
d) both foreground & background
d
6. Number of threads that exists for each of the processes that occurs in the program:
a) at most 1
b) atleast 1
c) only 1
d) both at most 1 & atleast 1
d
7. Choose the namespace which supports multithreading programming?
a) System.net
b) System.Linq
c) System.Threading
d) All of the mentioned
c
8. What does the following C# code snippet specify?
public Thread(ThreadStart start)
a) Defines a thread
b) Declaration of a thread constructor
c) Only Defines a thread
d) Only Defines a thread & Declaration of a thread constructor
d
          public Thread(ThreadStart start)
Here, start specifies the method that will be called to begin execution of the thread. In other words, it specifies the thread’s entry point.
9. Which of these classes is used to make a thread?
a) String
b) System
c) Thread
d) Runnable
c
10. On call of which type of method the new created thread will not start executing?
a) Begin()
b) Start()
c) New()
d) All of the mentioned
b
11. Which of these methods of Thread class is used to Suspend a thread for a period of time?
a) sleep()
b) terminate()
c) suspend()
d) stop()
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – C# Programming Language.
C# Practice ResourcesC# Mock Tests & Certification Test | 1000 C# MCQs | 1000 C# Programs | Best C# Books
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - C# Questions & Answers – Rounding Functions» Next - C# Questions & Answers – Multithreaded Programming – 2 
