1. What does the given C code do?
double atan2 (double y, double x);
a) The atan2 function returns the arc tangent of x/y
b) The atan2 function returns the arc tangent of x
c) The atan2 function returns the arc tangent of y/x
d) The atan2 function returns the arc tangent of y
c
2. The cos function computes the cosine of x.
a) measured in radians
b) measured in degrees
c) measured in gradian
d) measured in milliradian
a
3. The function computes the hyperbolic cosine of x.
a) cos(x)
b) cosine(x)
c) cosh(x)
d) cosineh(x)
c
4. What error occurs if the magnitude of x is too large in sinh(double x)?
a) domain error
b) range error
c) no error
d) zero is returned
b
5. Which of the following is the correct code?
a) tanh(double x)
b) tanh double x
c) tanhdouble x
d) tanhdoublex
a
6. Name the function that breaks a floating-point number into a normalized fraction and an integral power of 2.
a) exp()
b) frexp()
c) Idexp()
d) modf()
b
7. The function computes the exponential function of x.
a) exp(x)
b) frexp(x)
c) frexp x
d) exp x
d
8. The ldexp() function multiplies a floating-point number by an integral power of 2.
a) true
b) false
a
The ldexp function multiplies a floating-point number by an integral power of 2. A range error may occur. The ldexp() function returns the value of x times 2 raised to the power exp.
9. What will be the output of the following C code?
double log (double -x);
a) returns natural logarithm of x
b) range error
c) domain error
d) returns natural logarithm of -x
c
10. Which of the given function is a library function under the header math.h?
a) log10()
b) log20()
c) log30()
d) log50()
a
The log10 function computes the base-ten logarithm of x. If the argument is negative, a domain error occurs. If the argument is zero, a range error may occur.
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – C Programming Language.
C Practice ResourcesC Mock Tests & Certification Test | 1000 C MCQs | 1000 C Programs | 1000 C Algorithms | Best C Books | C Internship
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - C Questions and Answers – Mathematical Functions – 1» Next - C Questions and Answers – Mathematical functions – 3 
