This section on C programming interview questions and answers focuses on “File Access”. One shall practice these interview questions to improve their C programming skills needed for various interviews (campus interviews, walkin interviews, company interviews), placements, entrance exams and other competitive exams. These questions can be attempted by anyone focusing on learning C Programming language. They can be a beginner, fresher, engineering graduate or an experienced IT professional. Our C programming interview questions come with detailed explanation of the answers which helps in better understanding of C concepts.
Here is a listing of C programming interview questions on “File Access” along with answers, explanations and/or solutions:
1. What are the first and second arguments of fopen?
a) A character string containing the name of the file & the second argument is the mode
b) A character string containing the name of the user & the second argument is the mode
c) A character string containing file pointer & the second argument is the mode
d) None of the mentioned
a
2. For binary files, a ___ must be appended to the mode string.
a)  Nothing
b) “b”
c) “binary”
d) “01”
b
3. What will fopen will return, if there is any error while opening a file?
a) Nothing
b) EOF
c) NULL
d) Depends on compiler
c
4. What is the return value of getc()?
a) The next character from the stream is not referred by file pointer
b) EOF for end of file or error
c) Nothing
d) None of the mentioned
b
5. When a C program is started, O.S environment is responsible for opening file and providing pointer for that file?
a) Standard input
b) Standard output
c) Standard error
d) All of the mentioned
d
6. In C language, FILE is of which data type?
a) int
b) char *
c) struct
d) None of the mentioned
c
7. What is meant by ‘a’ in the following C operation?
fp = fopen("Random.txt", "a");
a) Attach
b) Append
c) Apprehend
d) Add
b
8. Which of the following mode argument is used to truncate?
a) a
b) f
c) w
d) t
c
9. Which type of files can’t be opened using fopen()?
a) .txt
b) .bin
c) .c
d) none of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – C Programming Language.
C Practice ResourcesC Mock Tests & Certification Test | 1000 C MCQs | 1000 C Programs | 1000 C Algorithms | Best C Books | C Internship
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - C Programming Questions and Answers – Formatted Input – 2» Next - C Programming Questions and Answers – File Access – 2 
