1. Stress concentration is defined as the localization of high stresses due to irregularities present in the component and no changes of the cross section.
a) True
b) False
b
2. Stress Concentration Factor is the ratio of nominal stress obtained by elementary equations for minimum cross-section and highest value of actual stress near discontinuity.
a) True
b) False
b
3. If a flat plate with a circular hole is subjected to tensile force, then its theoretical stress concentration factor is?
a) 2
b) 3
c) 4
d) 1
b
4. For an elliptical hole on a flat plate, if width of the hole in direction of the load decrease, Stress Concentration Factor will______
a) Increase
b) Decrease
c) Remains constant
d) Can’t be determined. Varies from material to material
a
5. In which of the following case stress concentration factor is ignored?
a) Ductile material under static load
b) Ductile material under fluctuating load
c) Brittle material under static load
d) Brittle material under fluctuating load
a
6. Is it logical to use fluid analogy to understand the phenomenon of stress concentration?
a) True
b) False
a
7. Use of multiple notches in a V shaped flat plate will
a) Reduce the stress concentration
b) Increase the stress concentration
c) No effect
d) Cannot be determined
a
8. Which of the following reduces the stress concentration?
a) Use of multiple notches
b) Drilling additional holes
c) Removal of undesired material
d) Each of the mentioned
d
9. A flat plate 30mm wide and “t”mm wide is subjected to a tensile force of 5kN. The plate has a circular hole of diameter 15mm with the centre coinciding with the diagonal intersection point of the rectangle.  If stress concentration factor=2.16,  find the thickness of the plate if maximum allowable tensile stress is 80N/mm².
a) 8mm
b) 9mm
c) 10mm
d) 12mm
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Machine Design.
To practice all areas of Machine Design, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Machine Design Questions and Answers – Fracture Mechanics, Curved beams & Thermal Stresses» Next - Machine Design Questions and Answers – Fluctuating Stresses & Fatigue Failure 
