1. How many set of nozzles are there in a simple impulse turbine?
a) one
b) two
c) three
d) four
a
2. In steam turbine terminology, the loss of energy due to higher exit velocity of steam is called _____
a) velocity loss
b) energy loss
c) kinetic loss
d) carry over loss
d
3. Which of the following statements about De laval turbine is FALSE?
a) It has only one set of nozzles
b) Impulse blades are attached to the rotors
c) It has multiple rings of moving blades
d) Exit velocity of steam is very high
c
4. The wheel or rotor speed in case of De laval turbine is low as only one ring of moving blade absorbs the kinetic energy of the steam.
a) True
b) False
b
5. Which of the following statements about multi-stage reaction turbine is FALSE?
a) Pressure drop takes place gradually over the fixed blades
b) Fixed blades act as nozzles
c) Moving blades absorb kinetic energy of the steam
d) Pressure is not altered while the steam is moving over the moving blades
d
6. Which of the following statements is FALSE about velocity compounding?
a) Steam is expanded through only one set of nozzles
b) Low cost and high efficiency
c) The kinetic energy of the steam is absorbed in stages
d) The fixed blades re-direct the direction of velocity
b
7. Which of the following statements is FALSE about pressure compounding?
a) Steam pressure is reduced when steam moves over the moving blade
b) Multiple set of nozzles is used
c) Rotor speed is not very high
d) Steam expansion takes place in steps
a
8. Which of the following turbine uses pressure compounding method for reduction of rotor speed?
a) Curtis turbine
b) Rateau and Zoelly turbine
c) Curtis and Moore turbine
d) De laval turbine
b
9. Which of the following turbines do not resort to any method of rotor speed?
a) De laval turbine
b) Curtis turbine
c) Rateau and Zoelly turbine
d) Curtis and Moore turbine
a
10. Pressure velocity compounding is used in _____
a) Rateau and Zoelly turbine
b) Curtis and Moore turbine
c) De laval turbine
d) Curtis turbine
b
11. Identify the incorrect statement regarding impulse turbine.
a) Blade manufacturing of reaction turbine is difficult than that of impulse turbine
b) Impulse turbine makes use of profile type blades whereas reaction turbine uses aerofoil type
c) Pressure drop occurs in only nozzles in impulse turbines but also occurs in moving blades reaction turbine
d) Impulse turbine can generate more power than impulse turbine
d
12. Which of the following turbines has the least efficiency?
a) Curtis and Moore turbine
b) Rateau and Zoelly turbine
c) De laval turbine
d) Curtis turbine
c
13. In a condensing steam turbine the pressure of the steam leaving the turbine should be equal to _____
a) inlet pressure
b) condenser pressure
c) atmospheric pressure
d) boiler pressure
b
14. Identify the incorrect statement about blades.
a) Fixed profile type blade redirects the steam
b) Steam pressure is dropped in moving as well as fixed aerofoil type blades
c) Fixed aerofoil type blades act as nozzles
d) Steam pressure us dropped in moving profile type blades
d
15. In pressure velocity compounding, the total drop in steam pressure is divided into stages and velocity obtained in each stage is also compounded.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Thermal Engineering
To practice all areas of Thermal Engineering for Quizzes,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Classification of Steam Turbines» Next - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Impulse Turbines – 1 
