1. Shell boilers are preferred for high pressure and high output.
a) True
b) False
b
2. Which of the following statements is FALSE about high pressure boilers?
a) Modern high pressure boilers used for power generation have steam capacities even greater than 650 tonnes/hr
b) Water is circulated through a pump in most of the modern high pressure boilers
c) They are mostly water tube boilers
d) One continuous tube is used for water circulation
d
3. Which of the following is NOT a unique feature of high pressure boiler?
a) Water circulation method
b) Tubing type
c) Firing method
d) Improved method of heating
c
4. Which of the following heating methods is NOT used in high pressure boilers?
a) Evaporation of water above critical pressure of steam
b) Decreasing gas velocity (improves heat transfer coefficient)
c) Increasing water velocity inside tube (improves heat transfer coefficient)
d) Mixing of water with superheated steam
b
5. Which of the following is FALSE about high pressure boilers?
a) They are compact
b) Heat of combustion utilized more effectively
c) Heat is saved by evaporating water below critical pressure
d) Pumps are used to circulate water
c
6. In LaMont boilers, the circulation of water is maintained by a centrifugal pump which is driven by a steam turbine in which steam is fed from the boiler itself.
a) True
b) False
a
7. The main drawback of LaMont boilers is _____
a) limited capacity of evaporating drum
b) bubble formation on the inner surface of heating tubes
c) hindrance in the flow of hot gases
d) radiant superheater decreases the efficiency
b
8. Which of the following statements is FALSE about Benson boiler?
a) Bubble formation in the heating tubes is prevented by slow heating
b) It is a forced circulation boiler
c) Oil is used as fuel
d) Feed water is compressed to 235 bar
a
9. What is the maximum working pressure obtained by a commercial Benson boiler?
a) 300 atm
b) 400 atm
c) 500 atm
d) 600 atm
c
10. Which of the following statements about Benson boiler is correct?
a) It requires large surface area
b) It is prone to explosions more than other boilers
c) It takes a lot of time to start
d) It is lighter than other boilers
d
11. Which of the following statements about super-critical is TRUE?
a) It only needs preheater and superheater
b) It only needs economizer and preheater
c) It only needs economizer and superheater
d) It only needs preheater
a
12. Which of the following statements about Velox boiler is FALSE?
a) It starts quickly
b) It is compact
c) Combustion rates are low
d) Pressurized air is used
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Thermal Engineering
To practice  all areas of Thermal Engineering for online Quizzes,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Steam Generators – Water Tube Boilers» Next - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Boiler Mountings – 1 
