1. What is the function of a cooling tower in a power plant?
a) It cools the hot water coming back from the condenser
b) It cools the hot water being supplied to the condenser
c) It heats the cold water coming back from the condenser
d) It heats the cold water being supplied to the condenser
a
2. Which of the following phenomenon is used to cool water in a cooling tower?
a) Evaporation
b) Radiation
c) Condensation
d) Conduction
a
3. Humidity of air affects the cooling of water in a cooling tower.
a) True
b) False
a
4. The cooling of water is affected by degree of uniformity in descending water.
a) True
b) False
a
5. Based on the material, with which the towers are made, cooling towers are classified into _____
a) Timber towers, Concrete towers and Alloy duct type
b) Induced and forced draught type
c) Induced and natural draught type
d) Timber towers, Concrete towers and Steel duct type
d
6. Which of the following statements about timber towers is False?
a) Timber towers have longer life than concrete and steel duct type towers
b) Timber towers have high maintenance charges
c) Timber towers have limited cooling capacity
d) Timber towers are rarely used
a
7. Which of the following statements about concrete towers is FALSE?
a) Concrete towers have large capacity (of the order 5 x 103 m3/h)
b) Longer life than timber towers
c) Concrete towers have good stability under air pressure
d) Concrete towers require frequent maintenance
d
8. Which of the following statements about duct type cooling towers is TRUE?
a) They are widely used in modern power plants
b) Their water handling capacity is small
c) On continued exposure to wind, water and sun, they rot
d) They have short life
b
9. Which of the following statements regarding cooling towers is FALSE?
a) Concrete towers have longer life than timber tower
b) Timber towers have high maintenance charges
c) Duct-type cooling towers have small capacity
d) Cooling towers are used to cool down the water being supplied to the boiler of the power plant
d
10. Which type of cooling tower is shown in the image below?
a) Induced draught cooling tower
b) Forced draught cooling tower
c) natural draught cooling tower
d) Forced or induced depending upon the sense of rotation of fan
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Thermal Engineering
To practice all areas of Thermal Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Steam Condensers – Quantity of Cooling Water Required» Next - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Reciprocating Steam Engine – Definition and Classification 
