1. Convective superheater is placed in the furnace and it receives heat from the burning fuel through radiation.
a) True
b) False
b
2. Steam separator reduces the wetness of the steam before it enters the engine or turbine.
a) True
b) False
a
3. Which of the following is NOT a valid type of steam separator?
a) Baffle (Impact) type
b) Tubular type
c) Reverse current type
d) Centrifugal type
b
4. What is the function of a steam trap?
a) It is used to store stem once the generation is complete
b) It prevents the leakage of steam from the boiler
c) It is used to increase the temperature of the steam
d) It captures the condensed steam from steam pipes and steam separators
d
5. Which of the following statement about convective superheater is TRUE?
a) It is located in the furnace
b) It absorbs heat from the burning fuel through radiant process
c) It absorbs heat from the flue gases
d) It is used where very high superheat temperature is required
c
6. Which of the following is NOT a valid type of air preheater?
a) Tubular type
b) Plate type
c) Temperature type
d) Storage type
c
7. The degree of preheating does not depend on _____
a) type of fuel
b) initial temperature of air
c) type of fuel burning equipment
d) boiler and furnace ratings
b
8. Which of the following statements about air preheaters is FALSE?
a) It increases the temperature of air being supplied to the furnace
b) Storage type air preheaters cannot be used in larger plants
c) The temperature of the hot gases released through the chimney is kept minimum
d) It facilitates the burning of fuel
b
9. What is the function of a superheater?
a) It increases the temperature of the air being supplied to furnace
b) It increases the temperature of steam above saturation temperature
c) It increases the temperature of feed water
d) It increases the temperature of the flue gases leaving the furnace
b
10. Which of the following statements about superheaters is TRUE?
a) Condensation losses in the cylinders and steam pipes are reduced
b) Turbine erosion is avoided
c) Increases efficiency of the steam plant
d) Steam consumption of the engine is increased
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Thermal Engineering
To practice all areas of Thermal Engineering for Interviews,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Boiler Accessories – 1» Next - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Draught – Definition and Classification 
