1. Boiler Accessories increase efficiency of the steam boilers.
a) True
b) False
a
2. Which of the following is NOT a boiler accessory?
a) Feed pump
b) Steam trap
c) Steam separator
d) Mud hole (sight hole)
d
3. Which of the following statements about feed pump is TRUE?
a) It is used to deliver feed water to the boiler
b) It is used to take out steam from the boiler
c) It is a boiler mounting
d) It delivers air to the combustion chamber
a
4. Which of the following statements about reciprocating feed pumps is FALSE?
a) Water is discharged in alternate strokes in single acting pump
b) Water is discharged in each stroke in double acting pump
c) They are supplied steam from the boiler itself
d) In double acting pump water us displaced by only one side of the piston
d
5. The rotating element of the rotary feed pump is called _____
a) impeller
b) propeller
c) armature
d) propulsor
a
Join [email protected]
6. Which of the following is TRUE about an injector?
a) It feeds water into the boiler
b) Kinetic Energy of steam is utilized to increase velocity of feed water
c) It is used where there isn’t enough space to install feed pump
d) It is ideal for high capacity high pressure boilers
d
7. Pumping efficiency of an injector is high.
a) True
b) False
b
8. What is the function of economizer?
a) It is used to heat the feed water
b) It is used to improve the quality of steam
c) It is used to heat air being supplied for combustion
d) It separates suspended water particles from steam
a
9. Which of the following statements about vertical tube economiser (Green’s economiser) is FALSE?
a) It is used with boilers operating below 25 bars
b) It is an integral type economiser
c) The direction of flow of flue gases is opposite to that of water
d) It consists of a blow-off cock for removal of sediments
b
10. What is the function of an air preheater?
a) It increases the temperature of air before it enters the furnace
b) It increases the temperature of hot gases before they are released into the atmosphere
c) It reduces the temperature of hot gases before they are released into the atmosphere
d) It improves the quality of steam by mixing it with hot air
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Thermal Engineering
To practice all areas of Thermal Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Boiler Mountings – 2» Next - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Boiler Accessories – 2 
