1. Which of the following is NOT a fire tube boiler?
a) Cochran Boiler
b) Lancashire Boiler
c) Locomotive Boiler
d) Babcock and Wilcox Boiler
d
2. Which of the following is NOT a valid classification of boilers?
a) Forced circulation and natural circulation
b) High pressure and low pressure
c) Stationary and Portable
d) Single fired and Double fired
d
3. Babcock and Wilcox boiler is an internally fired boiler.
a) True
b) False
b
4. Which of the following statement is NOT true about fire tube boilers?
a) Hot gases are inside the tubes and water surrounds them
b) For a given power it occupies more floor area
c) Operating pressure can be as high as 100 bars
d) Not suitable for large power plants
c
5. The classification of boilers into horizontal, vertical and inclined is done on the basis of their _____
a) pressure
b) method of firing
c) tubes
d) axis
d
6. Which of the following is a low pressure boiler?
a) Babcock and Wilcox boiler
b) Benson boiler
c) Lancashire
d) Lamont Boiler
c
7. Which of the following statement is FALSE about boilers?
a) Portable boilers are also called as mobile boilers
b) Lamont boiler is a forced circulation type boiler
c) Cochran boiler is a high pressure boiler
d) Horizontal boilers occupy more space
c
8. Which of the following statement is TRUE about fire tube and water tube boilers?
a) Fire tube boilers have high risk of bursting than water tube boilers
b) Water tube boilers have high risk of bursting than fire tube boilers
c) Bursting of boilers isn’t possible
d) It depends upon the quality of water fed to the boiler
b
9. Which of the following is NOT a forced circulation boiler?
a) Velox boiler
b) Lancashire boiler
c) Lamont boiler
d) Benson boiler
b
10. Which of the following is NOT true about Babcock and Wilcox boiler?
a) Water tube boiler
b) Externally fired
c) High pressure boiler
d) Single tube
d
11. Which of the following is a single tube boiler?
a) Cornish boiler
b) Lancashire boiler
c) Benson boiler
d) Cochran boiler
a
12. In natural circulation boilers, water circulation takes place due to natural convection current produced by the application of heat.
a) True
b) False
a
13. Stationary boilers are used for _____
a) locomotive applications
b) temporary applications
c) power plant steam generation
d) marine application
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Thermal Engineering
To practice all areas of Thermal Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
» Next - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Steam Generators – Boilers Selection and Terminology 
