1. Which of the following statements regarding boiler mountings is TRUE?
a) They ensure safe operation of the boiler
b) They are installed to increase efficiency of the boiler
c) Economizer, superheater and feed pumps are boiler mountings
d) Water level indicator is not a boiler mounting
a
2. Water level indicator _____
a) indicates the amount of steam in the boiler
b) indicates the amount of water in the boiler
c) indicates the amount of water converted to steam
d) indicates the amount of steam left in the boiler
b
3. What is the purpose of guard glass in a glass-tube water level indicator?
a) It protects the attendant, if water starts leaking
b) It protects the water gauge, if steam pressure increases the design pressure
c) It protects the attendant, if boiler cracks
d) It protects the attendant, if the gauge glass breaks
d
4. What is the purpose of pressure gauge?
a) It measures the pressure exerted on the boiler shell from outside
b) It measure the current atmospheric pressure
c) It measures pressure exerted inside the boiler shell
d) It measures hydrostatic pressure of water at the bottom of the boiler shell
c
5. Which of the following statements about compound pressure gauge is TRUE?
a) It measure the hydrostatic pressure exerted by water at the bottom surface
b) It can measure pressures above and below atmospheric pressure on the same dial
c) It is installed at the bottom of the boiler shell
d) It measures absolute pressure
b
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. The syphon tube in the Bourdon pressure gauge (single tube) is filled with _____
a) mercury
b) turpentine oil
c) mineral water
d) condensed water
d
7. Which of the following statements about Bourdon pressure gauge is FALSE?
a) Double-tube Bourdon gauge is more rigid than the single tube
b) Double-tube Bourdon gauge is more suitable for portable boilers
c) It measures the gauge pressure
d) The movement of the free end of the elliptical tube is proportional to the internal pressure of the boiler
d
8. The function of a safety valve is _____
a) to release the excess steam when the steam pressure exceeds the rated pressure
b) to extinguish fire when the temperature reaches impermissible value
c) to release the excess water
d) it cuts off the water supply when water level reaches its maximum limit
a
9. Which of the following is NOT a type of safety valve?
a) Dead weight safety valve
b) Lever safety valve
c) Spring loaded safety valve
d) High water and low steam safety valve
d
10. Which of the following statements about safety valves is FALSE?
a) It is usually mounted on the top of the shell
b) It releases the steam if the steam pressure exceeds the rated pressure
c) Dead weight safety valve is a type of safety valve
d) An attendant is required to operate the valve
d
11. Which of the following statements about dead weight safety valve is FALSE?
a) It is unsuitable for Locomotive boilers
b) It is suitable for low pressure and low capacity boilers
c) To lift the valve the inside pressure must overcome the valve weight and the dead weights
d) It is suitable for high pressure boilers
d
12. Spring loaded safety valve is suitable for locomotive and marine engines.
a) True
b) False
a
13. Which of the following statements about high steam and low water safety valve is FALSE?
a) It can be used on portable boilers
b) Steam escapes out when water level falls below a certain level
c) Steam is released when its pressure exceeds a certain pressure
d) It is generally used in Lancashire and Cornish boiler
a
14. In water level indicator, the glass tube that indicated the water level is called _____
a) measurement tube
b) guard glass tube
c) gauge glass tube
d) level tube
c
15. A Steam separator is a boiler mounting.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Thermal Engineering
To practice all areas of Thermal Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Steam Generators – High Pressure Boilers» Next - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Boiler Mountings – 2 
