1. Which of the following statements is not a correct reason for inefficiency in surface condensers?
a) Air leakage
b) High resistance faced by the steam while entering
c) Condensate undercooling
d) Circulating water passing through the condenser almost smoothly
d
2. Surface condensers require more power for water pumping than jet condensers.
a) True
b) False
a
3. Which of the following statements is FALSE regarding air leakage in condensers?
a) The sources of air leakage can be found by putting soap water at infiltration prone points
b) The sources of air leakage can be found out by putting pepprament oil on suspected joints
c) The source of air leakage, if large, can be found out by passing candle flame over possible openings
d) Thermometer and vacuum gauge readings become steady when leakage is present in a condenser
d
4. Which of the following methods is the correct one for using pepprament oil to detect the source of air leakage?
a) Put the pepprament oil on the suspected joint and wait for the bubbles
b) Put the pepprament oil on the suspected joint and wait for it to get sucked
c) Put the pepprament oil on the suspected joint and check for pepprament odour at the discharge of air ejector
d) Put the pepprament oil on the suspected joint, pepprament oil being coloured will change the colour of condensed water
c
5. Which of the following statement about condensers is FALSE?
a) Jet condensers are more suitable for high capacity plants owing to their high vacuum efficiency
b) Surface condensers require more cooling water than jet condensers
c) As compared to surface condensers, jet condensers require smaller floor space
d) The manufacturing cost of surface condensers is greater than that of jet condensers
a
6. What is the effect of air leakage in condensers on thermal efficiency of the steam power plant?
a) Thermal efficiency gets lowered
b) Thermal efficiency increases
c) Thermal efficiency remains unchanged
d) It increases or decreases depending upon the degree of leak
a
7. How does air leakage in a condenser affect the requirement of cooling water?
a) Air leakage reduces the amount of cooling water required
b) Air leakage increases the amount of cooling water required
c) Air leakage doesn’t affect the amount of cooling water required
d) Amount of cooling water required increases or decreases depending upon the rate of air leakage
b
8. How does air leakage in condensers affect the heat transfer rate?
a) Heat transfer is reduced
b) Heat transfer is increased
c) Heat transfer rate is not affected by air leakage
d) Heat transfer rate increases or decreases depending on the rate of air leakage
a
9. What effect does air leakage in a condenser has on corrosion?
a) Air leakage reduces corrosion
b) Air leakage increases corrosion
c) Air leakage does not affect corrosion
d) Corrosive action increases or decreases depending upon the degree of leak
b
10. Which of the following is not an effect of air leakage in condensers?
a) Reduced thermal efficiency of steam power plant
b) Increased requirement of cooling water
c) Increase in corrosive action in condenser
d) Increased heat transfer in condenser
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Thermal Engineering
To practice all areas of Thermal Engineering for Entrance exams,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Surface Condensers» Next - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Condenser and Vacuum Efficiency 
