1. Which of the following is the correct range of the diameter of shell for a Lancashire boiler?
a) 1 to 2 m
b) 2 to 3 m
c) 3 to 4 m
d) 4 to 5 m
b
2. Which of the following statements is TRUE about Lancashire boiler?
a) The length of its shell is about 10 m
b) It has a steam capacity of 12000 kg/hr
c) It is a water tube boiler
d) Its efficiency is about 50 to 70%
d
3. What is the maximum working pressure of a Lancashire boiler?
a) 10 bar
b) 12 bar
c) 14 bar
d) 16 bar
d
4. In Lancashire boiler, an arrangement is made so that burning coal and ashes do not enter the furnace tubes. What is that arrangement called?
a) Low brickwork fire bridge
b) Ash-filter
c) Filtering mesh
d) Furnace separator
a
5. How many fire tubes (Furnace tubes) does a Lancashire boiler has?
a) One
b) Two
c) Three
d) Four
b
Join [email protected]
6. What is the function of dampers in Lancashire boiler?
a) They control the flow of hot gases to the chimney
b) They regulate the fire in the furnace
c) They control the flow water to the boiler
d) They control the steam going out of the boiler
a
7. The efficiency of Locomotive boiler is around _____
a) 30%
b) 50%
c) 70%
d) 90%
c
8. What is the steam capacity of a Locomotive boiler?
a) 3000 kg/hr
b) 5000 kg/hr
c) 7000 kg/hr
d) 9000 kg/hr
d
9. What is the working pressure of a Locomotive boiler?
a) 12 bar
b) 14 bar
c) 16 bar
d) 18 bar
b
10. In locomotive boiler, why natural draught cannot be obtained?
a) The chimney height required is too low
b) The boiler keeps moving, cannot maintain a constant pressure difference
c) The chimney height required is too high
d) The diameter of chimney required is impractical
c
11. Which of the following statements is FALSE about a Locomotive boiler?
a) It has high steam capacity
b) It is portable
c) Scale formation and corrosion could take place
d) Water spaces can be cleaned easily
d
12. In case of Locomotive boilers, what purpose the dampers serve?
a) They control the flow of air to grate
b) They control the flow of hot gases
c) They control the flow of steam leaving the boiler
d) They reduce the intensity of fire, if needed
a
13. In Locomotive boilers, the superheater tubes are placed inside the fire tubes.
a) True
b) False
a
14. Which of the following statements is FALSE about steam dome in Locomotive boilers?
a) It is located at the upper part of the barrel
b) It has a regulator to regulate the steam flow
c) It is the chamber to collect the steam produced
d) From steam dome, the steam flows into the chamber through a steam pipe
c
15. When the locomotive is at rest, there is no exhaust steam available. So, fresh steam from the boiler is used as exhaust steam.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Thermal Engineering
To practice all areas of Thermal Engineering for Interviews,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Steam Generators – Fire Tube Boilers – 1» Next - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Steam Generators – Water Tube Boilers 
