1. Which of the following is NOT a type of jet condenser?
a) Parallel flow type
b) counter flow type
c) Ejector type
d) Central flow type
d
2. Parallel flow type condensers are further classified into _____
a) high speed type and low speed type condensers
b) high steam type and low steam type condensers
c) high level type and low level type condensers
d) high capacity and low capacity type condensers
c
3. Which of the following statement regarding parallel flow type jet condensers is FALSE?
a) They are classified into Low level type and high level type
b) Condensate is collected at the bottom
c) Exhaust steam and cooling water enter the condenser from top
d) Exhaust steam and cooling water enter from opposite directions
d
4. Counter-flow type jet condensers are classified into – Low-level type and High level type jet condensers.
a) True
b) False
a
5. What is the function of baffle plate in parallel flow type low level jet condenser?
a) It keeps cooling water and exhaust steam from mixing
b) It ensures proper mixing of cooling water and exhaust steam
c) It collects condensate over it for extraction
d) It helps condenser wall withstand the inside pressure
b
6. Where is condensate extraction pump provided in case of low level parallel flow type jet condenser?
a) At the bottom of the condenser
b) At the top of the condenser
c) Near the baffle plate
d) Near the steam entry point
a
7. Which of the following statements regarding low level counter flow type jet condensers is FALSE?
a) Cooling water is broken into jets by perforated trays
b) Condensate is collected at the bottom
c) Steam is discharged near the bottom and moves upwards
d) The air suction pump is placed near the bottom of the condenser
d
8. Which of the following condensers is also called barometric condenser?
a) Low level parallel flow type jet condenser
b) Low level counter flow type jet condenser
c) High level counter flow type jet condenser
d) High level parallel flow type jet condenser
c
9. Which of the following condensers does not require a condensate extraction pump?
a) Low level parallel flow type jet condenser
b) Low level counter flow type jet condenser
c) High level counter flow type jet condenser
d) Central flow type surface condenser
c
10. High level counter flow type jet condenser requires an injection pump to pump cooling water inside the condenser shell (when water under pressure isn’t available).
a) True
b) False
a
11. Which of the following statements regarding ejector condenser is FALSE?
a) It is a type of jet condenser
b) Exhaust steam passes through a non-return valve
c) Kinetic energy of cold water decreases as it passes through the truncated cones
d) Pressure of cold water drops as the water progresses through the truncated cones
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Thermal Engineering
To practice all areas of Thermal Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Classification of Steam Condensers» Next - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Surface Condensers 
