1. Which of the following is NOT a type of surface condenser?
a) Regenerative type
b) Evaporative type
c) Inverted-flow type
d) Ejector type
d
2. Which of the following condensers is also called cross-surface condenser?
a) Inverted-flow type
b) Evaporative type
c) Down-flow type
d) Central-flow type
c
3. Radial flow of steam is observed in _____
a) down-flow type surface condenser
b) central-flow type surface condenser
c) regenerative type surface condenser
d) evaporative Surface condenser
b
4. Which of the following condensers has air suction located at the top?
a) Down-flow type surface condenser
b) Central-flow type surface condenser
c) Inverted-flow type surface condenser
d) Evaporative condenser
c
5. In Inverted-flow type surface condensers, where is the pipe of condensate extraction pump located?
a) At the top of the condenser shell
b) At the bottom of the condenser shell
c) Near the middle portion of the condenser shell
d) Between the middle and the top portion of the condenser shell
b
6. In regenerative type surface condensers, the condensate before being used as feed water for the boiler is heated using the entering exhaust steam.
a) True
b) False
a
7. _____ works best when the availability of cooling water is limited.
a) Down-flow type surface condenser
b) Regenerative type surface condenser
c) Inverted-flow type surface condenser
d) Evaporative condenser
d
8. In down-flow type surface condensers, the plate that separates the water box into two sections is called _____
a) baffle plate
b) separating plate
c) partitioning plate
d) divider
a
9. Which of the following statements is FALSE about down-flow type surface condensers?
a) Cold water flows through the tubes and the exhaust steam flows around the tubes
b) The condenser shell is usually made cylindrical
c) Cold water doesn’t come in direct contact with the exhaust steam
d) It is also called barometric condenser
d
10. Where is the suction pipe of the air suction pump located in central-flow type surface condensers?
a) At the centre of the tubes
b) At the top of condenser shell
c) At the bottom of the condenser shell
d) Near the pipe of condensate extraction pump
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Thermal Engineering
To practice all areas of Thermal Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Jet Condensers» Next - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Steam Condensers – Sources and Effects of Air Leakage 
