1. What is the function of fusible plug?
a) Protects the boiler from overheating
b) Prevents mixing of water and steam
c) Regulated the flow of steam outside boiler
d) It is opened to increase the flow of air for combustion
a
2. Which of the following statements about fusible plug is FALSE?
a) It extinguishes fire when water level is low
b) It protects the boiler from overheating
c) It should have a very high melting point
d) It needs to be renewed after a period of time
c
3. In fusible plug, the fusible metal is protected from fire by flange on the hollow gun metal plug.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Which of the following statements about blow-off cock is FALSE?
a) It is used to discharge the mud that has settled at the bottom
b) It is used to empty the boiler for cleaning
c) Scale and sediments are also removed when the blow-off cock is opened
d) It is used to fill the boiler with water
d
5. In a fusible plug, the substance that melts when it comes in contact with the steam is called _____
a) Melt
b) Meting wax
c) Fusible metal
d) Fusible wax
c
6. What is the function of a feed check valve?
a) It regulates the flow of hot gases from the fire-box
b) It controls the flow of air to the combustion chamber
c) It controls the supply of steam outside the boiler
d) It controls the supply of water to boiler
d
7. The part of the feed check valve which moves up and down automatically under the pressure of water on its gun metal seat is called _____
a) Check valve
b) Fusible plug
c) Flange
d) Safety valve
a
8. Which of the following statements about feed check valve is FALSE?
a) It controls the flow of water
b) It only allows flow of water in one direction
c) It is fitted on top of the boiler shell
d) It consists of check valve which automatically moves up and down under pressure of water
c
9. Which of the following is NOT a boiler mounting?
a) Steam stop valve
b) Man hole
c) Economizer
d) Pressure gauge
c
10. Which of the following statement about stop valve (or junction valve) is FALSE?
a) It regulates the flow of steam
b) Fitted at top of the boiler
c) It connects boiler with the steam pipe
d) The smaller sized valve is called junction valve
d
11. Where is feed check valve mounted?
a) On top of the boiler shell
b) At the bottom of the boiler shell
c) Above the water level to be maintained
d) Slightly below the water level to be maintained
d
12. Feed check valve is used to empty the boiler when it is required to be cleaned.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Thermal Engineering
To practice all areas of Thermal Engineering for Freshers,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Boiler Mountings – 1» Next - Thermal Engineering Questions and Answers – Boiler Accessories – 1 
