1. Which of the below is not a valid design pattern?
a) Singleton
b) Factory
c) Command
d) Java
d
2. Which of the below author is not a part of GOF (Gang of Four)?
a) Erich Gamma
b) Gang Pattern
c) Richard Helm
d) Ralph Johnson
b
3. Which of the below is not a valid classification of design pattern?
a) Creational patterns
b) Structural patterns
c) Behavioural patterns
d) Java patterns
d
4. Which design pattern provides a single class which provides simplified methods required by client and delegates call to those methods?
a) Adapter pattern
b) Builder pattern
c) Facade pattern
d) Prototype pattern
c
5. Which design pattern ensures that only one object of particular class gets created?
a) Singleton pattern
b) Filter pattern
c) State pattern
d) Bridge pattern
a
6. Which design pattern suggests multiple classes through which request is passed and multiple but only relevant classes carry out operations on the request?
a) Singleton pattern
b) Chain of responsibility pattern
c) State pattern
d) Bridge pattern
b
7. Which design pattern represents a way to access all the objects in a collection?
a) Iterator pattern
b) Facade pattern
c) Builder pattern
d) Bridge pattern
a
8. What does MVC pattern stands for?
a) Mock View Control
b) Model view Controller
c) Mock View Class
d) Model View Class
b
9. Is design pattern a logical concept.
a) True
b) False
a
10. Which design pattern works on data and action taken based on data provided?
a) Command pattern
b) Singleton pattern
c) MVC pattern
d) Facade pattern
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Java Programming Language.
Java Practice ResourcesJava Mock Tests & Certification Test | 1000 Java MCQs | 1000 Java Programs | 1000 Java Algorithms | Best Java Books
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Advanced Java Questions & Answers – JDBC» Next - Advanced Java Questions & Answers – Debugging in Eclipse 
