1. What is true about private constructor?
a) Private constructor ensures only one instance of a class exist at any point of time
b) Private constructor ensures multiple instances of a class exist at any point of time
c) Private constructor eases the instantiation of a class
d) Private constructor allows creating objects in other classes
a
2. What would be the behaviour if this() and super() used in a method?
a) Runtime error
b) Throws exception
c) compile time error
d) Runs successfully
c
3. What is false about constructor?
a) Constructors cannot be synchronized in Java
b) Java does not provide default copy constructor
c) Constructor can have a return type
d) “this” and “super” can be used in a constructor
c
4. What is true about Class.getInstance()?
a) Class.getInstance calls the constructor
b) Class.getInstance is same as new operator
c) Class.getInstance needs to have matching constructor
d) Class.getInstance creates object if class does not have any constructor
d
5. What is true about constructor?
a) It can contain return type
b) It can take any number of parameters
c) It can have any non access modifiers
d) Constructor cannot throw an exception
b
6. Abstract class cannot have a constructor.
a) True
b) False
b
7. What is true about protected constructor?
a) Protected constructor can be called directly
b) Protected constructor can only be called using super()
c) Protected constructor can be used outside package
d) protected constructor can be instantiated even if child is in a different package
b
8. What is not the use of “this” keyword in Java?
a) Passing itself to another method
b) Calling another constructor in constructor chaining
c) Referring to the instance variable when local variable has the same name
d) Passing itself to method of the same class
d
9. What would be the behaviour if one parameterized constructor is explicitly defined?
a) Compilation error
b) Compilation succeeds
c) Runtime error
d) Compilation succeeds but at the time of creating object using default constructor, it throws compilation error
d
10. What would be behaviour if the constructor has a return type?
a) Compilation error
b) Runtime error
c) Compilation and runs successfully
d) Only String return type is allowed
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Java Programming Language.
Java Practice ResourcesJava Mock Tests & Certification Test | 1000 Java MCQs | 1000 Java Programs | 1000 Java Algorithms | Best Java Books
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Java Questions & Answers – Constructors & Garbage Collection» Next - Java Questions & Answers – Heap and Garbage Collection 
