1. Which one of the following is not an access modifier?
a) Public
b) Private
c) Protected
d) Void
d
2. All the variables of class should be ideally declared as?
a) private
b) public
c) protected
d) default
a
3. Which of the following modifier means a particular variable cannot be accessed within the package?
a) private
b) public
c) protected
d) default
a
4. How can a protected modifier be accessed?
a) accessible only within the class
b) accessible only within package
c) accessible within package and outside the package but through inheritance only
d) accessible by all
c
5. What happens if constructor of class A is made private?
a) Any class can instantiate objects of class A
b) Objects of class A can be instantiated only within the class where it is declared
c) Inherited class can instantiate objects of class A
d) classes within the same package as class A can instantiate objects of class A
b
6. All the variables of interface should be?
a) default and final
b) default and static
c) public, static and final
d) protect, static and final
c
7. What is true of final class?
a) Final class cause compilation failure
b) Final class cannot be instantiated
c) Final class cause runtime failure
d) Final class cannot be inherited
d
8. How many copies of static and class variables are created when 10 objects are created of a class?
a) 1, 10
b) 10, 10
c) 10, 1
d) 1, 1
a
9. Can a class be declared with a protected modifier.
a) True
b) False
b
10. Which is the modifier when there is none mentioned explicitly?
a) protected
b) private
c) public
d) default
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Java Programming Language.
To practice all areas of Java for Interviews, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Java.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Java Questions & Answers – Access Control – 1» Next - Java Questions & Answers – Arrays Revisited & Keyword static 
