1. Which of the following access specifiers can be used for an interface?
a) Protected
b) Private
c) Public
d) Public, protected, private
a
2. Which of the following is the correct way of implementing an interface A by class B?
a) class B extends A{}
b) class B implements A{}
c) class B imports A{}
d) None of the mentioned
b
3. All methods must be implemented of an interface.
a) True
b) False
a
4. What type of variable can be defined in an interface?
a) public static
b) private final
c) public final
d) static final
d
5. What does an interface contain?
a) Method definition
b) Method declaration
c) Method declaration and definition
d) Method name
b
6. What type of methods an interface contain by default?
a) abstract
b) static
c) final
d) private
a
7. What will happen if we provide concrete implementation of method in interface?
a) The concrete class implementing that method need not provide implementation of that method
b) Runtime exception is thrown
c) Compilation failure
d) Method not found exception is thrown
c
8. What happens when a constructor is defined for an interface?
a) Compilation failure
b) Runtime Exception
c) The interface compiles successfully
d) The implementing class will throw exception
a
9. What happens when we access the same variable defined in two interfaces implemented by the same class?
a) Compilation failure
b) Runtime Exception
c) The JVM is not able to identify the correct variable
d) The interfaceName.variableName needs to be defined
d
10. Can “abstract” keyword be used with constructor, Initialization Block, Instance Initialization and Static Initialization Block.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Java Programming Language.
To practice all areas of Java for Interviews, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Java.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Java Questions & Answers – Interfaces – 1» Next - Java Questions & Answers – Core Java API Packages 
