1. What requires less resources?
a) Thread
b) Process
c) Thread and Process
d) Neither Thread nor Process
a
2. What does not prevent JVM from terminating?
a) Process
b) Daemon Thread
c) User Thread
d) JVM Thread
b
3. What decides thread priority?
a) Process
b) Process scheduler
c) Thread
d) Thread scheduler
d
4. What is true about time slicing?
a) Time slicing is OS service that allocates CPU time to available runnable thread
b) Time slicing is the process to divide the available CPU time to available runnable thread
c) Time slicing depends on its implementation in OS
d) Time slicing allocates more resources to thread
b
5. Deadlock is a situation when thread is waiting for other thread to release acquired object.
a) True
b) False
a
6. What should not be done to avoid deadlock?
a) Avoid using multiple threads
b) Avoid hold several locks at once
c) Execute foreign code while holding a lock
d) Use interruptible locks
c
7. What is true about threading?
a) run() method calls start() method and runs the code
b) run() method creates new thread
c) run() method can be called directly without start() method being called
d) start() method creates new thread and calls code written in run() method
d
8. Which of the following is a correct constructor for thread?
a) Thread(Runnable a, String str)
b) Thread(int priority)
c) Thread(Runnable a, int priority)
d) Thread(Runnable a, ThreadGroup t)
a
9. Which of the following stops execution of a thread?
a) Calling SetPriority() method on a Thread object
b) Calling notify() method on an object
c) Calling wait() method on an object
d) Calling read() method on an InputStream object
b
10. Which of the following will ensure the thread will be in running state?
a) yield()
b) notify()
c) wait()
d) Thread.killThread()
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Java Programming Language.
To practice all areas of Java for Quizzes, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Java.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Java Questions & Answers – Multithreading Basics» Next - Java Questions & Answers – Creating Threads 
