1. Which of the following process leads to degradation of pesticides using microbial population?
a) Green algae
b) Thioether oxidation
c) Heavy metals
d) Oxygen
b
2. Which of the following terms is not relevant to distressing microbial population?
a) Decrease in richness
b) Variety of classes
c) Resistant population
d) Color of species
d
3. Pesticides can be degraded better in metal stress.
a) True
b) False
b
4. Which of the following pollution is not responsible for oxidation of Sulphur?
a) Copper
b) Cadmium
c) Zinc
d) Glass
d
5. Which of the following population cannot be affected by pesticides?
a) Cyanobacteria
b) Algae
c) Protozoan
d) Phytoremediation
d
Join [email protected]
6. What of the following is used to remove pesticides using plants?
a) Phyto-extraction
b) Mashing with Adhesives
c) Mashing with Fibers
d) Watering
a
7. How bacteria incorporate pesticides inside them?
a) Slow transport inside the cell
b) Gasification
c) Incineration
d) Disposal
a
8. Which of the following can degrade pesticides?
a) Biogeochemcial cycle
b) Thioether oxidation
c) Afforestation
d) Deforestation
b
9. What habitat is not a home for Sulphur degrading bacteria present in pesticides?
a) Snow
b) Soil
c) Rocks
d) Distilled water
d
10. Which of the following is a method of phytoextraction for removal of Sulphur present in pesticides?
a) Absorption by plant roots
b) Absorption by water
c) Absorption by soil
d) Absorption by weathered rock
a
11. Thioether oxidation can remove pesticides.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Biotechnology.
To practice advanced questions and answers on all areas of Environmental Biotechnology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Microbial Transformations of Pesticides – Oxidative Dealkylation» Next - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Microbial Transformations of Pesticides – Decarboxylation 
