1. Which of the following are usually not degraded by aerobic degradation of nitro-aromatics?
a) Di-nitro derivatives
b) Mono derivatives
c) Poly-nitro derivatives
d) Amino aromatics
d
2. Which of the following can be used for decontamination of nitro aromatic pesticides from the soil?
a) Ex situ techniques
b) In situ techniques
c) Poly-nitro derivatives
d) Amino aromatics
a
3. Nitro-aromatic compounds found in the environment are known as which of the following?
a) Water
b) Oxygen
c) Carbon
d) Recalcitrant
d
4. Which of the following helps to hydrolyze the nitro-aromatics?
a) Exo enzymes
b) Endo enzymes
c) Sodium
d) Potassium
a
5. Which of the following property is shown by the exo-enzyme with bio polymers?
a) Adsorption
b) Absorption
c) Miscibility
d) Immiscibility
a
6. Which of the following is the vital intermediate of almost all the metabolism processes?
a) Acetyl CoA
b) Oil
c) Natural gas
d) Carbon dioxide
a
7. When carbohydrates are consumed by aerobic bacteria, almost one third of initial energy is lost.
a)	True
b)	False
a
8. Which of the following is used for cell multiplication in a cell?
a) Maintenance of metabolism
b) Smashing with Adhesives
c) Smashing with Fibers
d) Smashing with Alkali and acids
a
9. Which of the following bond of ATP conserves the energy bond?
a) Phosphanhydride bond
b) Phosphodiester bond
c) Ether bond
d) Covalent bond
a
10. Microorganisms can catalyze mineralization of nitro-aromatics.
a) True
b) False
a
11. Which of the following process can be used for mineralization of nitro-aromatics?
a) Aerobic process
b Using adhesives
c) Using Fibers
d) Using Alkali
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Biotechnology.
To practice all areas of Environmental Biotechnology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Microbial Transformations of Pesticides – Halogen Reactions» Next - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Doses of Toxicants 
