1. Which of the following is used to dispose of the waste generated in urban areas?
a) Low lying areas
b) Residential area of towns and cities
c) Industrial area
d) Rural waste
a
2. At the disposal sites, which of the following methods is used to reduce the volume of urban waste?
a) Bulldozer leveling
b) Open burning
c) Fertilizer
d) Incineration
b
3. Open burning at the disposal sites causes severe noise pollution.
a) True
b) False
b
4. What is the major environmental concern related to landfill?
a) Limited space
b) Limited technology
c) Less man-power
d) Discharge of leachates
d
5. Which of the following treatment shouldn’t be used for pre-treatment of solid waste?
a) Mechanical treatment
b) Biological treatment
c) Thermal treatment
d) Heavy metal treatment
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Aerobic degradation of waste in landfills is usually of very less time.
a) True
b) False
a
7. Which of the following mechanism can’t be used to regulate mass from waste to leaching water?
a) Hydrolysis
b) Addition of heavy metals
c) Biological degradation
d) Solubilisation
b
8. Which of the following phases is not identified in anaerobic degradation?
a) Anaerobic phase
b) Methanogenic fermentation
c) Aerobic compost
d) Acid fermentation
c
9. Which of the following is not an environmental monitoring method?
a) Ground water monitoring
b) Landfill sealing
c) Quality of leachate
d) Biodegradation
d
10. What is the method that fills in gas into the landfills?
a) Vermicomposting
b) In-situ aeration
c) Incineration
d) Recycling
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Biotechnology.
To practice all areas of Environmental Biotechnology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – General Composition of Urban Solid Wastes» Next - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Aerobic Treatment of Solid Wastes – Composting – 1 
