1. Which of the following area has the lowest chance of producing a biomedical waste?
a) Hospitals
b) Clinics
c) Laboratories
d) Agricultural lands
d
2. Which of the following is not a Biomedical waste?
a) Animal waste
b) Microbiological waste
c) Chemical waste
d) Domestic waste
d
3. Biomedical wastes are not infectious.
a) True
b) False
b
4. Which of the following is categorized as an incineration waste?
a) Incineration ash
b) Animal waste
c) Solid waste
d) Cytotoxic drugs
a
5. Which of the following should not be mixed with other wastes to avoid contamination?
a) Tarry residue
b) Oily sludge
c) Animal waste
d) Vegetable oil
c
6. Which of the following is not a waste treatment method for biomedical wastes?
a) Incineration
b) Chemical disinfecting
c) Autoclaving
d) Sieving
d
7. Which of the following requires special treatment of bacteria?
a) Packaging of waste
b) Labelling of waste
c) Transport of waste
d) Degradation of waste
d
8. Which of the following can be used to produce marketable compost from dry solid wastes?
a) Aerobic composting
b) Vermicomposting
c) Anaerobic digestion
d) Anaerobic composting
a
9. Which of the following can be used to treat wastes with simple organic matter with high water content?
a) Vermicomposting
b) Aerobic composting
c) Incineration
d) Anaerobic digestion
d
10. Genetically engineered microorganisms can treat biomedical wastes.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Biotechnology.
To practice all areas of Environmental Biotechnology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Treatment of Hazardous Wastes» Next - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Types of Pesticides – 1 
