1. Which of the following is not a process of Aromatic Hydroxylation?
a) Vitrification
b) Thermal
c)  Bio-leaching
d) Chemical
c
2. Soil remediation is a process that involves Aromatic Hydroxylation by means of which processes?
a) Bacterial contaminants
b) Residual effects of human activities
c) Biological contaminants
d) Non-Biological contaminants
b
3. What physical methods of treatment are involved in aromatic Hydroxylation?
a) Microorganisms
b) Concentration and excavation
c) Toxic compounds
d) Ethidium bromide
b
4. Which of the following is the most reliable method of remediation?
a) Bio-magnification
b) Bio-remediation
c)  Lyophilization
d) Chemical method
b
5. Which of the following decreases the risk of secondary contamination in the physical method of soil remediation?
a) Concentration
b) Reduced cost
c) Quorum quenching
d) Lyophilization
a
6. What is the global significance of methane gas?
a) Highest calorific value
b) Lowest calorific value
c) Eutrophication
d) BOD
a
7. Which technique is used to remove contaminants from a stream of water using aromatic Hydroxylation?
a) End-of-pipe
b) MPN
c) Dissolved Oxygen method
d) Chemical oxygen method
a
8. What type of pollutants released by vehicles leads to air pollution?
a) Hydrogen
b) Nitrogen
c) Carbon monoxide
d) Methane
c
9. Dead zones in water is caused due to which of the following issues?
a) Harmful algal blooms
b) Bio-remediation
c) Bio-degradation
d) Bio-magnification
a
10. Which of the following disease is caused in humans due to air pollution?
a) Malaria
b) Chronic obstructive pulmonary
c) Rheumatoid arthritis
d) Multiple sclerosis
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Biotechnology.
To practice all areas of Environmental Biotechnology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Microbial Transformations of Pesticides – Epoxidation» Next - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Microbial Transformations of Pesticides – Hydrolysis 
