1. Which of the following is most suitable for dry wastes?
a) Aerobic composting
b) Anaerobic composting
c) Closed vessel
d) Anaerobic digestion
a
2. Which of the following is an end product of anaerobic composting which is a source of energy?
a) Biogas
b) Alcohol
c) Toxic products
d) Amino acid
a
3. The degradation rate of anaerobic digestion is higher than that of aerobic digestion.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Which of the following is a characteristic of anaerobic digestion?
a) Low degradation rate
b) Low odor emission
c) Narrow suitability of wastes
d) Gas phase
b
5. Which of the following is not a characteristic of aerobic digestion?
a) Low degradation rate
b) High odor emission
c) Narrow suitability of wastes
d) Post-treatment
d
6. Which of the following factor doesn’t affect the growth of the technical expenditure?
a) Odor
b) Germs
c) Methane formation
d) Noise
c
7. Which of the following is not an advantage of aerobic composting?
a) Simple process
b) Low-cost
c) Easy method
d) Very expensive
d
8. In the arena of waste treatment, no process is the best.
a) True
b) False
a
9. Which of the following process is not used for waste treatment?
a) Aerobic composting
b) Anaerobic fermentation
c) Nuclear imaging
d) Vermicomposting
c
10. What is a major advantage of anaerobic fermentation over aerobic composting?
a) Human control
b) Production of methane
c) High water content
d) Less water contents
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Biotechnology.
To practice all areas of Environmental Biotechnology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Anaerobic Treatment of Solid Wastes and Biogas Generation» Next - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Treatment of Hazardous Wastes 
