1. Which of the following characteristics is not important to Microbial Transformations of Pesticides by decarboxylation process?
a) Quantity
b) Concentration
c) Color
d) Physical or chemical properties
c
2. Which of the following is not an ill-effect of improper handling of Pesticides?
a) Threat to the environment
b) Increase in mortality rate
b) Irreversible illness
d) Decrease in mortality rate
d
3. It is the responsibility of the operators to take care of the disposed of Pesticides.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Which of the following is not a serious hazardous characteristic of a pesticide?
a) Toxicity
b) Ignitability
c) Corrosiveness
d) Degradability
d
5. Which of the following is not a major concern in waste treatment processes?
a) Sludge
b) Ash
c) Organic solvents
d) Noise
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. In provision of the rules, which of the following is not appropriate with respect to the pesticide management?
a) Packaging
b) Labelling
c) Transport
d) Expenses
d
7. Spent hardening salt is a potential waste in which of the following processes of hardening?
a) Steel
b) Rock salt
c) Gold
d) Coal
a
8. Which of the following combination methods can be used to process the pesticides?
a) Decarboxylation
b) Solidification
c) Incineration
d) Chemical oxidation
a
9. What can be a potential threat in the purification processes for organic solvents?
a) Spent carbon
b) Methane
c) High water content
d) Less water contents
a
10. Flue gas dust is a pesticide.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Biotechnology.
To practice all areas of Environmental Biotechnology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Microbial Transformations of Pesticides – Thioether Oxidation» Next - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Microbial Transformations of Pesticides – Epoxidation 
