1. Which of the following needs archaea to degrade a contaminant?
a) Bio augmentation
b) Accumulation
c) Sterilization
d) Pasteurization
a
2. Which of the following can clog process for degradation of bioorganic compounds?
a) Bad bacteria
b) Algae
c) Archean
d) Bio augmentation microbes
a
3. The anabolic processes of algae help in the decomposition of bioorganic compounds.
a) True
b) False
b
4. Which of the following can be used to trace back to a biological origin?
a) Sugar portion
b) Potassium portion
c) Carbon portion
d) Calcium portion
c
5. Which of the following leads to shedding of carbon dioxide which is necessary to prevent a drop in pH?
a) Exhaust vapor
b) Fermentation
c) Distillation
d) Removal of heat
d
6. Which of the following process is observed when microalgae growing on a particular substrate can oxidize a second substrate?
a) Co substrate
b) Sugar substrate
c) Potassium substrate
d) Calcium substrate
a
7. Which of the following is a method of adding natural microbes?
a) Bio augmentation
b) Bioremediation
c) Methane production
d) Pasteurization
a
8. Which of the following enzyme helps in methane oxidation?
a) Methanol
b) Formaldehyde
c) Methane mono oxygenase
d) Carbon dioxide
c
9. The high persistence of halogenated xenobiotic can be overcome by microalgae.
a) True
b) False
a
10. Which of the following factors doesn’t affect the rate of degradation by microalgae?
a) Association
b) Microbial diversity
c) Microbial density
d) Color
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Biotechnology.
To practice all areas of Environmental Biotechnology Problems,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Microalgal Culture – Immobilisation of Cells 
