1. Which of the following is known to decompose the organic matter of wastes?
a) Composting
b) Cooking
c) Decomposing
d) Burning
a
2. Which of the following is not an objective of composting?
a) Reduction of mass
b) Elimination of toxic substances
c) Stabilization
d) Incineration
d
3. Pre-treatment of the wastes by composting leads to greenhouse effect.
a) True
b) False
b
Explanation Pre-treatment of the wastes by composting that is biological degradation of the organic matter helps to control the release of greenhouse gases into the environment as the organic matter is degraded before using in the landfills.
4. What of the following microorganisms have a major role in compositing?
a) Bacteria
b) Fungi
c) Plants
d) Actinomycetes
c
5. Which of the following components are present in the waste air of aerobic respiration?
a) Ammonia
b) Nitrous oxide
c) Carbon dioxide
d) Methane
d
6. Which of the following methods cannot be used for gas exchange in the heap?
a) Releasing the rotting material
b) Forced aeration
c) Maintaining the oxygen demand
d) Tightening the rooting material
d
7. Which of the following mechanism can optimize the input of hazardous metals?
a) Hydrolysis
b) Addition of heavy metals
c) Conditioning
d) Solubilisation
b
8. Post processing of the compost leads to increase in quality.
a) True
b) False
a
9. Which of the following method is not a post processing activity?
a) Sieving
b) Landfill sealing
c) Drying
d) Disintegrating clumps
b
10. Which of the following methods leads to increase of surface area for microorganisms to act?
a) Vermicomposting
b) Disintegration
c) Incineration
d) Recycling
b
11. Which of the following methods enhance the intensity of disintegration?
a) Velocity of degradation
b) Time of process
c) Composting process
d) Recycling
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Biotechnology.
To practice all areas of Environmental Biotechnology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Waste Disposal by Sanitary Landfilling» Next - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Aerobic Treatment of Solid Wastes – Composting – 2 
