1. Which of the following involves encapsulation of cells?
a) Immobilization
b) Enzyme reaction
c) Biofilm development
d) Pasteurization
a
2. Which of the following cannot be degraded by algal assemblage?
a) Alcohol
b) Organic pollutants
c) Carbonic acid
d) Water
b
3. Which of the following factors of cells doesn’t influence their Eco toxicological evaluations?
a) Stability
b) Size
c) Color
d) Texture
c
4. Which of the following factors is not used to determine the response of aquatic environment water and sediment biota to the immobilized cells?
a) Altered growth rate
b) Physiological activity at organism level
c) Fermentation
d) Physiological activity at cellular level
c
5. Which of the following factors can determine the rate of degradability of cells?
a) Residence time
b) Fermentation time
c) Instability
d) Growth
a
6. Which of the following is not a portion of degradability of immobilized cells?
a) Very easily degradable
b) Easily degradable
c) Potentially degradable
d) Very fast degradable
d
7. Which the following doesn’t come under the category of very easily degradable polymer compounds used in immobilization?
a) Sugar
b) Amino acids
c) Organic acids
d) PCB
d
8. Very easily degradable pollutant can be degraded by direct metabolism by algae.
a) True
b) False
a
9. What of the following biological organisms cannot be used to degrade very easily degradable pollutants during algal biomass harvesting and drying?
a) Bacteria
b) Fungi
c) Algae
d) Dioxins
d
10. Which of the following methods is not used to degrade easily degradable pollutant during immobilization of cells?
a) Adaptation of bacteria
b) Exo and endo enzyme reaction
c) Biofilm development
d) Pasteurization
d
11. Synthetic inoculation is a degradation requirement in immobilized cells.
a) True
b) False
a
12. Extra substrate obligation is there along with artificial inoculation.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Biotechnology.
To practice all areas of Environmental Biotechnology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Microalgal Culture – Harvesting and Drying of Algal Biomass» Next - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Microalgal Culture – Bioaugmentation for Commercial Production of Algae 
