1. Which of the following condition is not suited for aerobic pesticide treatment of solid wastes?
a) Controlled temperature
b) Controlled moisture
c) Closed vessel
d) Open vessel
d
2. Which of the following type of waste is most suited for pesticide anaerobic treatment of solid wastes?
a) Readily biodegradable compounds
b) Less moisture content
c) Less degradable
d) High temperature content
a
3. The technological potential of the biological wastes has been fully exhausted.
a) True
b) False
b
4. Which of the following is the most important product of anaerobic digestion?
a) Biogas
b) Acetic acid
c) Amino acid
d) Calcium
a
5. Which of the following has less organic matter load?
a) Marshlands
b) Marine sediments
c) Landfill sites
d) Fresh water
d
6. Which of the following is not an important step of anaerobic digestion?
a) Hydrolysis
b) Acidification
c) Methane formation
d) De-acidification
d
7. Which of the following causes decomposition of water insoluble biopolymers?
a) Hydrolysis
b) Acidification
c) Esterification
d) Methanogenesis
a
8. Continuous fermentation necessitates continuous loading and discharge.
a) True
b) False
a
9. Which of the following is an end product of anaerobic composting which is a source of energy?
a) Biogas
b) Alcohol
c) Toxic products
d) Amino acid
a
10. The degradation rate of anaerobic digestion is higher than that of aerobic digestion.
c) True
d) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Biotechnology.
To practice all areas of Environmental Biotechnology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Microbial Production of Fuels» Next - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Microbial Transformations of Pesticides – Beta – Oxidation 
