1. Which of the following characteristics is not important to hazardous wastes?
a) Quantity
b) Concentration
c) Color
d) Physical or chemical properties
c
2. Which of the following is not an ill-effect of improper handling of hazardous waste?
a) Increase in mortality rate
b) Irreversible illness
c) Threat to the environment
d) Decrease in mortality rate
d
3. It is the responsibility of the civilians to take care of the disposed of hazardous wastes.
a) True
b) False
b
4. Which of the following is not a serious hazardous characteristic of the waste?
a) Toxicity
b) Ignitability
c) Corrosiveness
d) Degradability
d
5. Which of the following is not a hazardous waste of petrochemical processes?
a) Tarry residue
b) Oily sludge
c) Slop oil
d) Vegetable oil
d
6. Which of the following is not generated in waste treatment processes?
a) Sludge
b) Ash
c) Organic solvents
d) Noise
d
7. In provision of the rules, which of the following is not appropriate with respect to the hazardous wastes?
a) Packaging
b) Labelling
c) Transport
d) Very expensive
d
8. Spent hardening salt is a potentially hazardous waste in which of the following processes?
a) Hardening of steel
b) Hardening of rock salt
c) Hardening of gold
d) Hardening of coal
a
9. Which of the following combination methods can be used to process the hazardous wastes?
a) Landfill
b) Solidification
c) Incineration
d) Chemical oxidation
a
10. What can be a hazardous waste in the purification processes for organic solvents?
a) Spent carbon
b) Methane
c) High water content
d) Less water contents
a
11. Flue gas dust is a hazardous waste of zinc production.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Biotechnology.
To practice all areas of Environmental Biotechnology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Comparison of Aerobic and Anaerobic Solid Waste Treatment» Next - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Biomedical Waste Management 
