1. Which of the following groups can be de-alkylated by microorganisms?
a) N-linked alkylated groups
b) C-linked alkylated groups
c) F-linked alkylated groups
d) G-linked alkylated groups
a
2. Why is S-dealkylation not observed?
a) Greater inclination for oxidation of Sulphur
b) Lesser inclination for oxidation of Sulphur
c) Lesser inclination for reduction of Sulphur
d) Greater inclination for reduction of Sulphur
a
3. Dealkylation is caused as a co-metabolism process in fungi.
a) True
b) False
a
4. How does microbial arbitrated removal of alkyl group from nitrogen atom takes place?
a) Hydroxy-methyl intermediates
b) Intercellular ligands
c) Extracellular ligands
d) Integral proteins
a
5. Which of the following microorganisms is involved in dealkylation process?
a) Birds
b) Fungi
c) Human
d) Vertebrates
b
6. How fungi help in de-alkylation?
a) Oxidation
b) Reduction
c) Assimilation
d) Accumulation
a
7. Which of the following is not a method of dealkylation using microorganisms?
a) Adsorption
b) Chemical precipitation
c) Microbial demethylations
d) Reverse osmosis
c
8. Which of the following technique is used to metabolize cresols?
a) Activated Alumina
b) Microbial dealkylation
c) Reverse osmosis
d) Chemical precipitation
b
9. Pesticides with more than one alkoxyl group cannot be de-alkylated.
a) True
b) False
b
10. Which of the following can have more than one alkoxyl groups?
a) Pesticides
b) Distilled water
c) Coffee
d) Acetone
a
11. Herbicides can undergo microbial dealkylation.
a) True
b) False
a
12. Which of the following bacteria metabolizes cresols?
a) Pesticides
b) Pseudomonads
c) Fungi
d) Algae
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Biotechnology.
To practice all areas of Environmental Biotechnology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Microbial Transformations of Pesticides – Beta – Oxidation» Next - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Microbial Transformations of Pesticides – Thioether Oxidation 
