1. Which of the following is a term used for the amount of pollutant retained in the body of an organism?
a) Uptake
b) Retention
c) Dosage
d) Potassium
b
2. Which of the following can be a major source for eutrophication of surface water?
a) Nitrogen
b) Calcium
c) Magnesium
d) Potassium
a
3. Which of the following compound can help degrade amino nitrogen and heterocyclic nitrogen by biological method?
a) Ammonia
b) Nitrate
c) Sulphate
d) Carbon dioxide
a
4. Removal of nitrogen cannot be done by which of the following process?
a) Desalination
b) Nitrification
c) Ammonification
d) Denitrification
a
5. Autotrophic retention of nitrogen compounds leads to formation of nitrate by conversion of ammonia.
a) True
b) False
a
6. Which of the following is not an effect of retention or uptake of nitrogen and phosphorus in aquatic ecosystem?
a)	 Adverse health conditions
b)	Algal blooms
c)	Increase in water quality
d)	Reduction in marine life
c
7. Nitrifying bacteria doesn’t belong to which of the following genera?
a) Nitrosomonas
b) Nitrosococcus
c) Nitrosospira
d) Pseudomonas
d
8. The optimal removal of phosphate by biological method should have a COD/P ratio of 20g COD/g of phosphate.
a) True
b) False
a
9. Ferrous ions can supplement biological phosphate removal.
a) True
b) False
a
10. Which of the following is the correct expansion of OLNAD?
a) Oxygen limited nitrification and denitrification
b) Oxygen reduced nitrification and denitrification
c) Oxygen limited ammonification and denitrification
d) Oxygen reduced nitrification and ammonification
a
11. Which of the following is the major disadvantage of heterotrophic nitrification?
a) Excess sludge generation
b) Less sludge generation
c) Presence of oxygen
d) Presence of carbon source
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Biotechnology.
To practice all areas of Environmental Biotechnology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Doses of Toxicants» Next - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Dose – Effect Relationship 
