1. Which of the following is a result of oxidation of unsaturated carbon double bonds?
a) Aerobic composting
b) Anaerobic composting
c) Epoxide
d) Anaerobic digestion
a
2. Which of the following is an end product of anaerobic composting in context to epoxidation?
a) Amino acid
b) Alcohol
c) Toxic products
d) Biogas
d
3. Microbial degradation rate of anaerobic digestion is higher than that of aerobic digestion.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Which of the following is a major criterion for microbial anaerobic digestion?
a) Low degradation rate
b) Low odor emission
c) Narrow suitability of wastes
d) Gas phase
b
5. Which of the following is not a characteristic of Epoxidation?
a) Low degradation rate
b) High odor emission
c) Narrow suitability of wastes
d) Post-treatment
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Which of the following factor doesn’t affect the growth of the technical expenditure?
a) Odor
b) Germs
c) Methane formation
d) Noise
c
7. Which of the following is not an advantage of aerobic composting?
a) Simple process
b) Low-cost
c) Easy method
d) Very expensive
d
8. In the arena of Epoxidation, no process is the best.
a) True
b) False
a
9. Which of the following process is not used for Epoxidation?
a) Aerobic composting
b) Anaerobic fermentation
c) Nuclear imaging
d) Vermicomposting
c
10. What is a major advantage of Epoxidation and anaerobic fermentation over aerobic composting?
a) Human control
b) Production of methane
c) High water content
d) Less water content
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Biotechnology.
To practice all areas of Environmental Biotechnology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Microbial Transformations of Pesticides – Decarboxylation» Next - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Microbial Transformations of Pesticides – Aromatic Hydroxylation 
