1. Which of the following methods uses earthworms during composting?
a) Vermicomposting
b) Vertical composting
c) Windrow composting
d) Burning
a
2. Which of the following is not a major objective of Vermicomposting?
a) To elevate the value of original material
b) To accelerate the rate of degradation
c) To obtain toxic products
d) To obtain products free of any pollutants
c
3. Which among the following is not a major reason for choosing earthworms for Vermicomposting?
a) Low incubation time
b) Digestion rate
c) Adaptability
d) Low growth rate
d
4. Which of the following species of earthworms is not suitable for Vermicomposting?
a) Epifilis
b) Endogens
c) Aneciques
d) Plasmodium
d
5. Which of the following species has a shorter body size?
a) Epifilis
b) Endogens
c) Aneciques
d) Eudrilus
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Which of the following species is most stable in Indian conditions?
a) Perionyx
b) Epifilis
c) Endogens
d) Aneciques
a
7. Which of the following cannot be established properly in the field?
a) Eisenia foetida
b) Perionyx
c) Epifilis
d) Aneciques
a
8. Earthworms subsidize to the burial of wastes?
a) True
b) False
a
9. Which of the following is not a method of worm cast harvesting or manufacturing?
a) Homogenization
b) Active feeding
c) Drying under adequate light
d) Separation of cocoons
a
10. What is the major advantage of three-tire vermi-culture technology?
a) It can be applied to both solid and liquid wastes
b) It cannot be applied to both solid and liquid wastes
c) It involves chemical treatment
d) It can degrade organic wastes
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Biotechnology.
To practice all areas of Environmental Biotechnology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Aerobic Treatment of Solid Wastes – Composting – 2» Next - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Anaerobic Treatment of Solid Wastes and Biogas Generation 
