1. Which of the following condition is not suited for anaerobic treatment of solid wastes?
a) Controlled temperature
b) Controlled moisture
c) Closed vessel
d) Open vessel
d
2. Which of the following type of waste is best suited for anaerobic treatment of solid wastes?
a) Readily biodegradable compounds
b) Less moisture content
c) Less degradable
d) High temperature content
a
3. The technological potential of the biological wastes has been fully exhausted.
a) True
b) False
b
4. Which of the following is the most important product of anaerobic digestion?
a) Biogas
b) Acetic acid
c) Amino acid
d) Calcium
a
5. Which of the following has less organic matter load?
a) Marshlands
b) Marine sediments
c) Landfill sites
d) Fresh water
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Which of the following is not an important step of anaerobic digestion?
a) Hydrolysis
b) Acidification
c) Methane formation
d) De-acidification
d
7. Which of the following causes decomposition of water insoluble biopolymers?
a) Hydrolysis
b) Acidification
c) Esterification
d) Methanogenesis
a
8. Continuous fermentation necessitates continuous loading and discharge.
a) True
b) False
a
9. What is the third step for anaerobic processing of organic wastes?
a) Homogenization
b) Active feeding
c) Drying under adequate light
d) Anaerobic fermentation
d
10. What is dry fermentation process?
a) Water content between 55%-75%
b) Water content between 85%-95%
c) Water content between 80%-85%
d) Water content between 0%-15%
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Biotechnology.
To practice all areas of Environmental Biotechnology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Aerobic Treatment of Solid Wastes – Vermiculture» Next - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Comparison of Aerobic and Anaerobic Solid Waste Treatment 
