1. Which of the following resistance in bacteria is usually found in heavy metal contaminated sites?
a) Mercury
b) Copper
c) Nickle
d) Magnesium
a
2. The common feature of mercury resistance bacteria compared to the clinical isolates would be?
a) Absence of linkage to the drug resistance markers
b) Presence of linkage to the drug resistance markers
c) Presence of linkage to the antibiotic resistance markers
d) Absence of linkage to the antibiotic resistance markers
a
3. Mercury resistance elements in bacteria are plasmid coded.
a) True
b) False
a
4. How does Bacteria develop resistance mechanisms?
a) Extracellular ligands
b) Intercellular ligands
c) Instructions by DNA
d) Integral proteins
c
5. Which of the following metal can inhibit bacterial growth by binding to proteins?
a) Zinc
b) Plants
c) Nitrogen
d) Vermicomposting
a
6. Which of the following is not a sign of heavy metal poisoning?
a) Abdominal pain
b) Cardiomyopathy
c) Numbness
d) Far sightedness
d
7. How do heavy metals reach high localized concentration?
a) Bind to amino acids containing Sulfur
b) Bind to amino acids containing Nickle
c) Bind to amino acids containing Copper
d) Bind to amino acids containing Cadmium
a
8. Which of the following is not a fundamental mechanism of antimicrobial resistance?
a) Enzymatic degradation
b) Antimicrobial targets of bacterial proteins
c) Membrane permeability
d) Fungal growth
d
9. Heavy metal species released after death of the bacteria.
a) True
b) False
a
10. Which of the following is not a factor related to industrial process of microbial metal recovery?
a) Capacity
b) Immunity from interference
c) Membrane permeability
d) Efficiency
c
11. Biomining is used to extract metals from mine waste using bacteria.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Biotechnology.
To practice all areas of Environmental Biotechnology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Metal – Microbe Interactions» Next - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Microbial Applications for Metal Removal 
