1. Which oil recovery mechanism yields the most oil andis the most efficient oil recovery mechanism?
a) Selective plugging by microorganisms and their metabolites
b) Oil viscosity reduction by gas production
c) Production of acids by dissolving minerals in the rock
d) Degradation of long-chain saturated hydrocarbons
a
2. Which microbe is used as a solvent and applied in microbial oil recovery?
a) Leuconostoc
b) Xanthomonas
c) Brevibacterium
d) Klebsiella
d
3. Some strains of ______ bacteria can produce hydrogen, methane, acetate etc. by ________ of carbohydrates during initial growth phase.
a) obligate anaerobic; oxidation
b) facultative aerobic; reduction
c) obligate anaerobic; fermentation
d) facultative anaerobic; oxidation
c
4. The effects of bacterial activity decreases with time and distancefrom the injection well.
a) True
b) False
b
5. How the flow pattern in clogging mechanism is achieved?
a) By increasing the pressure
b) By increasing the viscosity
c) Bydecrease in microbial cell mass
d) By increasing the cell mass of microbes
d
6. Clostridium is used as which metabolite in microbial oil recovery?
a) Solvents, Acid and Gases
b) Biomass, Surfactants and Polymers
c) Solvents, Polymers and Gases
d) Acids, Surfactants and Biomass
a
7. In which form of microbial product is Leuconostoc applied in microbial oil recovery?
a) Biomass
b) Surfactants
c) Polymers
d) Solvents
a
8. Which is the most used bacteria strain in microbial oil recovery?
a) Bacillus
b) Pseudomonas
c) Arthrobacterium
d) Micrococcus
a
9. Which of these is not a strategy for the application of biosurfactants in oil recovery?
a) Injection of biosurfactants into reservoir through well that produce microorganisms and multiply their growth in-situ
b) Production of biosurfactants ex-situ while the same is injected into the reservoir
c) Injecting selected nutrients into the reservoir
d) Injecting microorganisms along with nutrients producing biomass
d
10. Less modification of the existing field characteristics are required to implement the recovery process by Microbial Oil Recovery technologies.
a) True
c) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Biotechnology.
To practice all areas of Environmental Biotechnology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Microbial Recovery of Phosphate» Next - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Microbial Production of Fuels 
