1. Which of the following is the best method to degrade xenobiotic compounds?
a) Microbial degradation
b) Chemical degradation
c) Water degradation
d) Physical agents
a
2. Which of the following doesn’t use microbial degradation method?
a) Sewage sludge
b) Pesticide disposals
c) Polluted water
d) Redox potential
d
3. Which of the following microbes are known to degrade xenobiotic compounds?
a) Planktonic algae
b) Cyanobacteria
c) Fungi
d) Goldfish
d
4. Which of the following fungi is not known to degrade DDT insecticide?
a) Aspergillus niger
b) Mucor alternans
c) Penicillium sp.
d) Bacillus cereus
d
5. Which of the following bacteria is not known to degrade Aldicarb insecticide?
a) E. coli
b) P. putida
c) Bacillus sp.
d) Mucor sp.
d
6. Sphingomonas paucimobilis can degrade which of the following toxic compound?
a) Lindane
b) Carbon dioxide
c) Lithium
d) Magnesium
a
7. Which of the following microbes can degrade carbaryl most efficiently?
a) Pseudomonas melophthora
b) Sphingomonas paucimobilis
c) P. putida
d) E. coli
a
8. Pyrethroids are susceptible to microbial degradation.
a) True
b) False
a
9. Which of the following system is affected by pyrethroids?
a) Ovulation
b) Circulatory system
c) Nerves
d) Digestive system
a
10. Tolerant cyanobacteria strain has higher esterase activity.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Biotechnology.
To practice all areas of Environmental Biotechnology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Microbial Adaptation to Pesticide Contaminated Environment» Next - Environmental Biotechnology Questions and Answers – Enzymes Catalyzing Pesticide Degradation Reactions 
