1. Light non-keys end up as a
a) Final product
b) Feed outlet
c) Bottom end product
d) Overhead product
d
2. Heavy non-keys end up as a
a) Final product
b) Feed outlet
c) Bottom end product
d) Overhead product
c
3. The reflux ratio corresponding to the minimum total cost is called as
a) Optimum reflux ratio
b) Minimum reflux ratio
c) Final Ratio
d) Total Reflux Ratio
a
4. The concentration of multi component mixture in mass transfer process, can be represented by
a) Mass concentration
b) Molar concentration
c) Molar density
d) Each quantity is important
d
Join [email protected]
5. HETP is numerically equal to HTU, If and only if operating line
a) Lies below the equilibrium line
b) Lies above equilibrium line
c) At equilibrium line
d) Is far from equilibrium line
c
6. In binary system, Separation is very efficient when relative volatility is
a) 1
b) >1
c) <1
d)  Zero
b
7. In batch distillation, with constant reflux overhead product composition
a) Increases with time
b) Decreases with time
c) Does not vary with time
d) Does vary with time
b
8. Which of the following assumes constant molal vaporization and overflow?
a) McCabe Thiele method
b) Ponchan Savarit Method
c) Enthalpy concentration method
d) Plate absorption method
a
9. The McCabe Thiele method
a) Uses molal units for material and energy balance
b) Uses weight fractions to express liquid and vapor composition
c) Can use any type of units
d) Is more accurate than ponchan savarit method
b
10. If q is interpreted to be fraction of feed stream that is liquid, then for saturated liquid feed
a) q =0
b) q <0
c) q >l0
d) q =1
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Distillation Design. 
To practice all areas of Distillation Design for Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Distillation Design Questions and Answers – Minimum Reflux» Next - Distillation Design Questions and Answers – Reflux Stage Relationships 
