1. The azeotrope in the ethanol–water binary system has a composition of ____ ethanol.
a) 89%
b) 59%
c) 88%
d) 99%
a
2. PSD is called?
a) Pressure Straight Desorption
b) Pressure Swing Distillation
c) Pressure Singer Desorption
d) Parameter Swing Distillation
b
3. For easy separation, the relative volatility αi,j tends to?
a) 0
b) 1
c) 1.5
d) 0.5
b
4. If the boiling temperature isobar exhibits, an extremal point then mixture is said to be
a)  Fully azeotropic
b)  Totally azeotropic
c)  Tangentially azeotropic
d)  Partially azeotropic
c
Join [email protected]
5. At constant pressure, there exhibits a nearly extreme point at zero concentration for one or several of the components this point is called?
a) Tangent pitch
b) Elliptical pitch
c) Parabolic pitch
d) Circular pitch
a
6. Positive deviation from Raoult’s law results in?
a) Minimum boiling azeotrope
b)  Maximum boiling azeotrope
c)  Tangential azeotrope
d)  Elliptical azeotrope
a
7. Negative deviation from Raoult’s law results in?
a) Minimum boiling azeotrope
b)  Maximum boiling azeotrope
c)  Tangential azeotrope
d)  Elliptical azeotrope
b
8. Ideal mixture obeys Raoult’s law results in?
a) Minimum boiling azeotrope
b) Maximum boiling azeotrope
c) Tangential azeotrope
d) Ideal azeotropes
d
9. The most commonly used membrane technology for liquid azeotropic mixtures is?
a) Pervaporation
b) Evaporation
c) De-evaporation
d) Condensation
a
10. When the entrainer reacts preferentially and reversibly with one of the original mixture components then it is called?
a) Non-Reactive distillation
b) Reactive distillation
c)  Extractive distillation
d)  Prime distillation
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series –  Distillation Design. 
To practice all areas of Distillation Design, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Distillation Design Questions and Answers – Azeotropic Distillation» Next - Distillation Design Questions and Answers – Extractive Distillation 
