1.	Which of the following is not an indirect heat batch dryer?
a)	Jacketed-shelf dryer
b)	Agitated pan dryer
c)	Conical vacuum dryer
d)	Drum dryer
d
2.	Which of the following is not a continuous heat dryer?
a)	Indirect hear rotary dryer
b)	Drum dryer
c)	Freeze dryer
d)	Conical vacuum dryer
d
3.	The type of agitator and the RPM depend on what in agitated pan dryer?
a)	Surrounding conditions
b)	Surrounding temperature
c)	Material to be dried
d)	Volume of material desired
c
4.	What is the vacuum dryer suitable for?
a)	Heat sensitive materials
b)	High molecular weight material
c)	Low molecular weight materials
d)	Highly viscous materials
a
5.	What is the use of the conical shape in the conical vacuum dryer?
a)	It allows high area to be exposed for drying
b)	Allows faster discharge of material through bottom
c)	It doesn’t allow the material to stick
d)	It helps slow transfer if material
b
Join [email protected]
6.	What is the efficiency of Indirect heat rotary dryer?
a)	70%
b)	80%
c)	95%
d)	100%
c
7.	What is drum dryer suitable for?
a)	Materials which are too thin for rotary dryer and too thick for spray dryer
b)	Materials which are too thin for spray dryer and too thick for rotary dryer
c)	Very thin materials
d)	Very thick slurries
a
8.	Which dryer is used for drying food products?
a)	Drum dryer
b)	Freeze dryer
c)	Rotary dryer
d)	Agitated pan dryer
b
9.	What is screw dryer suitable for?
a)	Very thick slurries
b)	Materials which are heat sensitive
c)	Free flowing granular materials
d)	Free flowing slurries
c
10.	At what temperature is the vapor condensed is freeze dryer?
a)	-20oc
b)	-30oc
c)	-40oc
d)	-60oc
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Separation Processes.
To practice all areas of Separation Processes for Campus Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Humidification and Water Cooling» Next - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Air Suspended Drying Systems 
