1.	Why direct heating by hot air cannot be done in some cases?
a)	The material can degrade
b)	High temperature not required
c)	Low temperature not required
d)	Conduction gives best results
a
2.	When are drum dryers used?
a)	When the material is too thick for spray dryer and too thin for rotary dryer
b)	When the material is too thick for rotary dryer and too thin for spray dryer
c)	When the material is not biodegradable
d)	When large crystal size is to be obtained
a
3.	How is heating achieved in drum dryers?
a)	By heating the drums
b)	By conduction
c)	By passing steam through hollow screws
d)	By passing steam through the conveyer belt
c
4.	What is the drum dryer called if it is open to the atmosphere?
a)	Open dryer
b)	Box dryer
c)	Trough dryer
d)	Trench dryer
c
5.	Which materials are not used in drying in a freeze dryer?
a)	Seafood
b)	Fruits
c)	Pharmaceuticals
d)	Dyes
d
6.	How the liquid does gets separated in freeze dryer?
a)	Boiling
b)	Distillation
c)	Freezing and crystallization
d)	Evaporation
c
7.	Heat sensitive or easily oxidizable materials are dried by:
a)	Flash dryer
b)	Drum dryer
c)	Fluidized bed dryer
d)	Rotary dryer
a
8.	With what is the feed introduced in the spary dryer?
a)	Spray
b)	Atomizer
c)	Nucleator
d)	Heat exchanger
b
a solution or a slurry of fine particles. It consists of a big drying chamber in which the feed is introduced through an atomizer at the top. 
9.	What is the use of a high pressure nozzle or a whirling disk in a spray dryer?
a)	Increasing contact time
b)	Decreasing contact time
c)	Agitation
d)	Atomization
d
10.	Which dryer used radiation for drying?
a)	Spray dryer
b)	Drum dryer
c)	Flash dryer
d)	Microwave dryer
d
The material is heated throughout by the radiation that penetrates into it.
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Separation Processes.
To practice all areas of Separation Processes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Drying Equipments» Next - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Commercial adsorbents and Their Applications 
