1. The equation of state and activity coefficients is adequate when the components are which of the following?
a) Polar components
b) Non-polar components
c) Electrolytes
d) Polymers
a
2. The predictive Soave-Redlich- kwong model combines which two models?
a) SRK model and miller model
b) SRK model and UNIFAC model
c) SRK model and UNIQUAC model
d) SRK model and Wilson model.
b
3. The pure component parameter ‘a’ is made ______ dependent to improve the ability of SRK model.
a) Pressure dependent
b) Molecules dependent
c) Volume dependent
d) Temperature dependent
d
4. Which gas is not a part of sour water?
a) CO
b) CO2
c) NO2
d) H2 S
c
5. Which of the following is not an ionic species in sour water?
a) H 2 SO –
b) NH 4+
c) HCO 3 –
d) HS –
a
6. Which of the following is correct about sour water?
a) The six molecular species are non-volatile while the ionic species are volatile
b) The six molecular species are volatile while the ionic species are non-volatile
c) Both the molecular and ionic species are non-volatile and must be separated
d) Both the molecular and ionic species are volatile and must be separated
b
7. Which model can handle mixed solvent systems?
a) Pitzer model
b) UNIFAC model
c) UNIQUAC model
d) Chen and associates model
d
8. Which of the following is true about polymer solution model?
a) Polymer is volatile but the solvent and monomer is non-volatile
b) Polymer and monomer are non-volatile while solvent is non-volatile
c) The polymer, the solvent, and the monomer is non-volatile
d) The polymer is non-volatile but the solvent and monomer are volatile
d
9. Which salt is not used in ATPS model for polymer separation?
a) K 2 SO 4
b) KCl
c) Na 2 SO 4
d) CH 3 COONa
d
10. Which model is used for polymer separation?
a) NRTL model of chen
b) Pitzer model
c) UNIFAC model
d) UNIQUAC mode
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Separation Processes.
To practice all areas of Separation Processes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Liquid Activity Coefficient Models» Next - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Steady-state, Ordinary Molecular Diffusion 
