1. Solvent extraction is more effective when the extraction is repeated with:
a) Extra solvent
b) Large solvent
c) Small solvent
d) No solvent
c
2. When the component has a small value of K, it is supposed to have an affinity for:
a) Mobile phase
b) No phase
c) Stationary phase
d) Whole solution
c
3. What is the use of ether layer?
a) To separate organic impurities
b) To separate inorganic impurities
c) To separate fibres
d) TO separate solvent
a
4. A mobile phase cannot be a :
a) Gas
b) Solid
c) Liquid
d) Solid or gas
b
5. What is the representation of distribution coefficient?
a) S
b) H
c) G
d) K
d
6. What is the colour post extraction of iodine?
a) Blue
b) Indigo
c) Purple
d) Red
c
7. The dispersed phase is also called as:
a) Non-continuous phase
b) Continuous phase
c) Dis-continuous phase
d) Gas phase
c
8. What is true about mixer settlers?
a) Two liquid phases mixed with impellers and separated by gravity induced separation.
b) Two liquid phases unmixed, and magnetic separation carried out
c) Two liquid phases are mixed by impellers, and separated using magnetic separation
d) Two liquid phases are heated to mix, and gravity induced separation is carried out
a
Explanation” In mixer settlers, two liquid phases mixed with impellers and separated by gravity induced separation.
9. The dispersed phase is:
a) Continuous
b) Heavier
c) Lighter
d) May be heavier or lighter
d
10. What is the major problem in settlers?
a) Colour of the two phases may be same
b) The two phases may not be visible
c) Emulsification in the mixing wheel
d) The size of dispersed particles can be large
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Separation Processes.
To practice all areas of Separation Processes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Separation Processes Questions and Answers- Rate-Based Methods for Packed Distillation Columns» Next - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Equipment for Solvent Extraction(b) 
