1.	What is the crystal size range of forced circulation crystallizer?
a)	10-20mesh
b)	20-30mesh
c)	30-60mesh
d)	100-200mesh
c
2.	Why the axial pump flow speed is preferred in forced circulation crystallizer?
a)	To reduce primary nucleation rate
b)	To reduce the crystal size
c)	To increase the crystal size
d)	To keep the secondary nucleation rate small
d
3.	What is the crystal size range of draft-tube-baffle crystallizer?
a)	1-2 mesh
b)	30-60mesh
c)	8-30mesh
d)	100-200mesh
c
4.	What is the near ambient temperature range for most inorganic solids?
a)	10-20
b)	10-40
c)	40-67
d)	70-80
b
5.	Which type of crystallizers does industry employ?
a)	Evaporative
b)	Cooling
c)	Sublimating
d)	Boiling
a
6.	What is not an advantage of using mechanical agitation?
a)	High purity
b)	Uniform crystal size
c)	High purity
d)	Low rate of primary nucleation
d
7.	What is the result of unagitated batch crystallizers?
a)	Undesirably large crystals
b)	Impure crystals
c)	Entrapment of mother liquor
d)	High secondary nucleation rate
d
8.	What ensures a reasonable heat transfer rate through a small temperature driving force?
a)	High agitation speed
b)	High magma velocity
c)	High nucleation rate
d)	Low nucleation rate
b
9.	What is the time for a typical cycle, including charging the feed, crystallization, and removal of the magma?
a)	1 hour
b)	2-8hr
c)	7-15hr
d)	5-14hr
b
10.	What is the specialty of the circulating liquor crystallizer?
a)	Supersaturaion is created in separate region
b)	Supersaturation is not created
c)	Supersaturation is created at every point
d)	Crystals are automatically thrown out of crystallizer
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Separation Processes.
To practice all areas of Separation Processes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Batch Crsytallization» Next - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Drying Equipments 
