1. What is the semi-permeable membrane used in separation techniques made from?
a) Animal calls
b) Plant cells
c) Egg shells
d) Natural fibers
d
2. What is separation effected by in microporous membranes?
a) Difference in solubility
b) Rate of species diffusion through the pores
c) Amount of feed to the membranes
d) Number of membranes used
b
3. What is separation effected by in non-porous membranes?
a) Differences In solubility in the membrane
b) Rate of species diffusion through the pores
c) Amount of feed to the membranes
d) Number of membranes used
a
4. What is meant by osmosis?
a) A process where molecules of a solute travel from more concentrated solution to less concentrated solution
b) A process where molecules of solute travel from less concentrated solution to more concentrated solution
c) A process where molecules of solvent travel from less concentrated solution to more concentrated solution through a semi-permeable membrane
d) A process where molecules of solvent travel from more concentrated solution to less concentrated solution through a semi-permeable membrane
c
5. Why do reverse osmosis occur?
a) Because the concentration is more in the other region
b) Because the semi-permeable membrane has a tendency
c) Because solute molecules start travelling from high concentration to low concentration
d) Because a reverse pressure greater than the osmotic pressure is applied
d
6. In which separation process is the heat of evaporation required?
a) Desublimation
b) Pervaporation
c) Crystallization
d) Reverse osmosis
b
7. Which of the following separation techniques DO NOT use a solid agent?
a) Adsorption
b) Ion-exchange
c) Chromatography
d) Stripping
d
8. Why is a solid adsorbent used in the separation technique of adsorption?
a) Because the components selectively adsorb and desorb from the solid surfaces
b) Because the transportation of solid adsorbents is easy
c) There are no known liquid adsorbents
d) Using a solid adsorbent lessens the heat of evaporation
a
9. Demineralization of water is done by which process?
a) Adsorption
b) Chromatography
c) Ion-Exchange
d) Distillation
c
10. What are the solid agents in form of?
a) Thick beds
b) Tubes
c) Flat sheets
d) Granular material
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Separation Processes.
To practice all areas of Separation Processes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – separations by Phase Additions or Creations» Next - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Separations by External Field or Gradient 
