1. What happens in sublimation?
a) Solid vaporizes in liquid phase
b) A liquid vaporizes in gas phase
c) A gas solidifies
d) A solid vaporizes in gas phase without going in liquid phase
d
2. What happens in desublimation?
a) Solid vaporizes in liquid phase
b) A liquid vaporizes in gas phase
c) A gas solidifies without changing to liquid
d) A solid vaporizes in gas phase without going in liquid phase
c
3. What are sublimation and desublimation governed by?
a) Liquid vapor pressure
b) Solid vapor pressure
c) Amount of solid present
d) Partial pressure of gas
b
4. What happens at equilibrium during sublimation?
a) Vapor pressure of liquid is equal to solid
b) Vapor pressure of solid is equal to vapor pressure of gas
c) Vapor pressure of solid is equal to partial pressure of solute in gas
d) Vapor pressure of solid is equal to partial pressure of solute in liquid
c
5. When does the sublimation take place?
a) The partial pressure of solute in gas phase is more than solid vapor pressure
b) The partial pressure of solute I gas phase is more than solid vapor pressure
c) The vapor pressure is equal to partial pressure
d) When sufficient heat is applied
a
6. What is the remainder product of sublimation called?
a) Subliment
b) Solute
c) Solvent
d) Sublimate
d
7. Which of the following is not an example of sublimate?
a) Camphor
b) Naphthalene
c) Iodine
d) Nitrates
c
8. Which of the following solids undergo sublimation?
a) Sodium chloride
b) Iodine crystals
c) Sodium carbonate
d) Sodium bicarbonate
b
9. A mixture of ammonium chloride and sodium chloride is separated by using:
a) Distillation
b) Crystallization
c) Sublimation
d) Magnetic separation
c
10. How is propylene-propane mixture separated?
a) Distillation
b) Crystallization
c) Adsorption
d) Sublimation
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Separation Processes.
To practice all areas of Separation Processes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Solid-Liquid Systems» Next - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Multiphase Systems 
