1.	What is the definition of azeotropic mixture?
a)	A liquid mixture of two or more substances that boils at a constant characteristic temperature lower or higher than anyof its components and that retains the same composition in the vapor state as in the liquid state.
b)	A liquid mixture of two or more substances that boils at a different characteristic temperature
c)	A liquid mixture of two or more substances that boils at a constant characteristic pressure
d)	A liquid mixture of two or more substances that boils at a constant characteristic temperature and pressure
a
2.	What is the value of K for azeotropic mixtures?
a)	0
b)	1
c)	2
d)	3
b
3.	Isopropyl ether-isopropyl alcohol is which type of azeotropic mixture?
a)	Minimum boiling heterogeneous mixture
b)	Maximum boiling heterogeneous mixture
c)	Minimum boiling homogeneous mixture
d)	Minimum boiling heterogeneous mixture
c
4.	Which of the following is true?
a)	Heterogeneous mixtures are minimum boiling point mixture
b)	Homogeneous mixtures are minimum boiling point mixture
c)	Heterogeneous mixtures are maximum boiling point mixture
d)	Homogeneous mixtures are maximum boiling point mixture
a
5.	Which of the following is not true?
a)	If  more than one liquid phase exists,it is heterogenous azeotrope
b)	A vapor can coexist with no more than two liquid phases
c)	If the solution is layered then it is heterogeneous azeotrope
d)	If one liquid phase exists it’s a homogeneous azeotrope
c
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6.	Which of the following is most common azeotrope?
a)	Minimum boiling heterogeneous
b)	Maximum boiling heterogeneous
c)	Maximum boiling homogeneous
d)	Minimum boiling homogeneous
d
7.	What happens when activity coefficients are greater than 1?
a)	The maximum total pressure is smaller than vapor pressure of either component
b)	The maximum total pressure is greater than vapor pressure of either components
c)	The maximum total pressure is greater than one component only
d)	The minimum total pressure is greater than vapor pressure of either components
.
8.	Where are maximum boiling homogeneous azeotropes approached in distillation?
a)	Bottom product
b)	Top product
c)	Vapors
d)	Separate channel required
a
9.	How is it possible to shift the equilibrium to advantage in azeotropic mixture?
a)	Changing the volume
b)	Adding more mixture
c)	Adding one of the component more
d)	Changing the pressure.
d
10.	Which of the following could be an azeotropic mixture?
a)	Components belonging to same functional group
b)	Geometrical isomers
c)	Functional isomers
d)	Chain isomers
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Separation Processes.
To practice all areas of Separation Processes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Membrane Modules 
