1.	Which technique separates charged particles using electric field?
a)	Hydrolysis
b)	Electrophoresis
c)	Protein synthesis
d) 	Protein denaturing
b
2.	Electrophoresis was developed by:
a)	Tswett
b)	Tsvedberg
c)	Tiselius
d) 	Sanger
c
3.	The speed of migration of ions in electric field depends upon:
a)	Shape and size of molecule
b)	Magnitude of charge and shape of molecule
c)	Magnitude of charge shape and mass of molecule
d) 	Magnitude of charge and mass of molecule
b
4.	Which of the following statements is true about migration of biomolecules?
a)	The rate of migration is directly proportional to the resistance of medium
b)	Rate of migration is directly proportional to current
c)	Low voltage is used for separation of high mass molecules
d) 	Rate of migration is inversely proportional to current
b
5.	What does the electrophoresis apparatus consist of?
a)	Gel, buffer chamber and fire pack
b)	Buffer chamber and electrophoresis unit
c)	Electrophoresis unit and gel separator
d) 	Power pack and electrophoresis unit
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6.	If proteins are separated according to their electrophoretic mobility then the type of electrophoresis is:
a)	SDS PAGE
b)	Affinity Electrophoresis
c)	Electro focusing
d) 	Free flow electrophoresis
a
7.	The electrophoretic mobility denoted as µ is mathematically expressed as:
a)	VE
b)	E/V
c)	1/EV
d) 	V/E
d
8.	Which of the following factors does not influence electrophoretic mobility?
a)	Molecular weight
b)	Shape of molecule
c)	Size of molecule
d) 	Stereochemistry of molecule
d
9.	When is electrophoresis not used?
a)	Separation of proteins
b)	Separation of amino acids
c)	Separation of Lipids
d) 	Separation of nucleic acids
c
10.	What cannot be a reason for using electrophoresis?
a)	Comparing two sets of DNA
b)	Organizing DNA by shape of backbone
c)	Organizing DNA fragments from largest to smallest
d) 	Organizing DNA in order we can see
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Separation Processes.
To practice all areas of Separation Processes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Ion-Exchange Cycle» Next - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Equilibrium Stage Model for Leaching and Washing 
