1. Which of the factors influence the feed conditions?
a) Phases
b) Capitol cost
c) Transport
d) Flow rate
d
2. Which of the factors influence the product conditions?
a) Phases
b) Capitol cost
c) Transport
d) Flow rate
a
3. What are NOT the characteristics of separation operation?
a) Ease of staging
b) Ease of scale up
c) Operating cost
d) Energy requirements
c
4. Which of the following can add significant cost to separation process?
a) Feed vaporization
b) Composition
c) Flow rate
d) Temperature
a
5. Which is the most important product condition?
a) Pressure
b) Temperature
c) Purity
d) Phases
c
6. What is the products price directly proportional to according to keller’s correlation?
a) Concentration
b) Dilution
c) Amount of feed
d) Amount of product
b
7. Which of the following is true?
a) Operations based on barriers are more costly than operations based on use of solid agent
b) Operations based on use of solid agent are more costly than operations based on use of barriers
c) Operations based on use of creation are costlier than operation based on use of barriers
d) Operation based on addition of phase are more costlier than operations based on use of barriers
a
8. What is necessary if there is potential impurity or possible corrosion?
a) Parallel units
b) Maximum size units
c) Pilot-plant
d) New plant
c
9. Ease of staging is not easy for which processes?
a) Distillation
b) Adsorption
c) Membrane separation
d) Crystallization
d
10. For which of the following processes there is always a need for parallel units?
a) Membrane separation
b) Distillation
c) Adsorption
d) Crystallization
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Separation Processes.
To practice all areas of Separation Processes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Introduction to Bioseparations» Next - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Energy, Entropy and Availability Balance 
