1.	What does reactive distillation denote?
a)	Distillation after reaction
b)	Reaction after distillation
c)	Reaction along with distillation
d)	Automatic distillation by reaction
c
2.	What are similar to reactive entrainers?
a)	Reactive absorbents
b)	Reactive adsorbents
c)	Reactive sublimers
d)	Reactive evaporators
a
3.	What is meant by sweetening of natural gas?
a)	Removal of H2S
b)	Removal of H2O and CO2
c)	Removal of H2S and CO2
d)	Removal of H2O and CO
c
4.	What reactive absorents are added for sweetening of natural gas?
a)	Triethanol amines
b)	Ethyl alchol
c)	Monoethanol amine
d)	Ethanol
c
5.	Reactive distillation is carried out when the reaction occurs in:
a)	Solid phase
b)	Gaseous phase
c)	Solid or gaseous phase
d)	Liquid phase
d
6.	What is the relation between reaction rate and distillation rate for reactive distillation?
a)	Reaction rate is more
b)	Distillation rate is more
c)	It depends on the components
d)	Both are equal
d
7.	Why a large reactant excess not required for high conversion?
a)	Because conversion is very high already
b)	Conversion is driven by temperature
c)	Conversion is driven by pressure
d)	If one or more products can be distilled out, there is a high conversion
d
8.	Which of the following is an application of reactive distillation?
a)	Avoiding undesirable reactions
b)	Avoiding temperature rise
c)	Separation of gases
d)	Separation of solids
a
9.	Which of the following is not a commercial application of reactive distillation?
a)	Esterification of acetic acid with ethanol
b)	Reaction of formaldehyde and methanol
c)	Reaction of isobutene and methanol
d)	Oxidation of ethyl alcohol
d
10.	For the reaction A< – -> R where A is more volatile, why does it require close examination?
a)	Reaction is very exothermic
b)	Reverse reaction may occur when equilibrium is reached
c)	Reaction cannot occur if a certain barrier of temperature is crossed
d)	Reaction may not occur if the reactants get mixed
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Separation Processes.
To practice all areas of Separation Processes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Heterogeneous Azeotropic Distillation» Next - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Differential Distillation 
