1. Which of the following is not a classification of biological species?
a) Bio-molecules
b) Small molecules
c) Bio-Polymers
d) Cellular particulates
a
2. What are primary metabolites?
a) Synthesized during primary phase of cell growth
b) Synthesized during secondary phase of cell growth
c) Synthesized during death phase of cell growth
d) Synthesized during growth phase of cell
a
3. What are secondary metabolites?
a) Synthesized during primary phase of cell growth
b) Synthesized during secondary phase of cell growth
c) Synthesized during the stationary phase
d) Synthesized during growth phase of cell
b
4. What is the molecular weight range of proteins?
a) 1000 DA- 10000 DA
b) 10000 Da- 100000 Da
c) 100000 Da-1000000 Da
d) 100000Da – 10000000 Da
b
5. What are nucleotides?
a) Nitrogenous bases covalently bonded to triose sugar
b) Nitrogenous bases covalently bonded to quadrose sugar
c) Nitrogenous bases covalently bonded to pentose sugar
d) Nitrogenous bases covalently bonded to hexose sugar
c
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Which of the following is an incorrect difference between prokaryotic and eukaryotic cell?
a) Eukaryotic cell has a cell wall while prokaryotic does not
b) Eukaryotic cell has less developed nucleus than prokaryotic cells
c) Prokaryotic cell can be aerobic while eukaryotic cell is mostly anaerobic
d) Prokaryotic cell does not have membrane bound organelles while eukaryotic cell has membrane bound organelles
c
7. If the bioproduct mass is 113Kg and the impurities are 500g, what is the purity of the bioproduct?
a) 99.12%
b) 99.55%
c) 0.004%
d) 98.68%
b
8. If the mass fed to the separation process was 460Kg and the mass recovered was 422Kg, what is the % yield?
a) 93.77%
b) 8.2%
c) 91,73 %
d) 9%
c
9. What is the purpose of solute- solute separations and what are the species removed?
a) Purpose: clarify target species; Removes: culture media, fermentation broth
b) Purpose: extract target from cells; removes: small molecules, proteins
c) Purpose: Preserve target species ; Removes: Buffer solutions
d) Purpose: Fractionate target species; Removes: unrelated solutes ,small molecules.
d
10. What is the purpose of fluid-solid separations and what are the species removed?
a) Purpose: clarify target species; Removes: culture media, fermentation broth
b) Purpose: extract target from cells; removes: small molecules, proteins
c) Purpose: Preserve target species ; Removes: Buffer solutions
d) Purpose: Fractionate target species; Removes: unrelated solutes ,small molecules.
a
11. Which of the following process is not employed to distinguish between contaminants and the product based on physiochemical features?
a) Filtration
b) Batch adsorption
c) Isoatachoporesis
d) Crystallization
d
12. What is the overall percentage yield for penicillin manufacturing?
a) 20%
b) 30%
c) 40%
d) 50%
a
13. Which of the following is also a process for penicillin recovery?
a) Adsorption on activated carbon
b) Direct crystallization
c) Degumming
d) Distillation
.
14. What is the use of batch electrophoresis in procedure of purification of bioproduct?
a) It gives high resolution carbohydrates
b) It purifies completely
c) It gives high resolution protein content
d) The targeted product is concentrated by batch electrophoresis
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Separation Processes.
To practice all areas of Separation Processes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Separations by External Field or Gradient» Next - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Selection of Feasible Separations 
