1. What does the solid-liquid separation operation don’t involve?
a) Gravity sedimentation
b) Magnetic separation
c) Filtration
d) Centrifugation
b
2. What process happens in leaching?
a) A solvent separates a mixture
b) Two solvents separate a mixture
c) A solvent selectively dissolves one of the component
d) The mixture is heated so that one solid sublimes and is separated.
c
3. What happens in an ideal leaching stage of a mixture of A and B?
a) The solvent dissolves Some B and some A
b) The solvent dissolves none of A and all B
c) The solvent dissolves all of A and B, which makes separation easier
d) The solvent does not dissolves any of A and B
b
4. What increases the solute concentration?
a) Increasing viscosity of the liquid phases
b) Decreasing viscosity of liquid phases
c) Increasing temperature of liquid phases
d) Decreasing temperature of liquid phases
a
5. What is a eutectic point?
a) A temperature at which the mixture boils
b) The temperature at which the mixture gets out of equilibrium
c) The temperature at which the components have same molar flow rates
d) The temperature at which the mixture freezes
d
6. What is needed because of crystals occluding liquid?
a) Centrifugation
b) Distillation
c) Drying step
d) Decantation
c
7. What is correct about the hydrate?
a) A high hydrate exists at low temperatures and low hydrste is unlikely to exist
b) A low hydrate exists at high temperature and a low hydrate exists at high temperature
c) A high hydrate exists at high temperature and a low hydrate exists at high temperature.
d) A hydrate does not exist at high temperature
b
8. What happens during adsorption process of solid-liquid separation?
a) The adsorbent adsorbs liquid in the interior and solid in the exterior
b) The adsorbent adsorbs liquid In the interior and the exterior
c) The adsorbent adsorbs solid in the interior and liquid in the exterior
d) The adsorbent adsorbs solid in the interior and the exterior
b
9. Which laboratory methods give a rough prediction about adsorption-equilibrium curves?
a) Isobaric calculation
b) Flow charts
c) Adsorption isotherms
d) Absorption isotherms
c
10. The freundlich equation is of the form:
a) qi = Aci (1/n)
b) cBQ=q*BS
c)  qi = Aci(n)
d) qi = Aci
a
converted to y=mx + c by taking logarithms on both sides.
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Separation Processes.
To practice all areas of Separation Processes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Multicomponent Flash, Bubble Point and Dew Point Calculations» Next - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Gas-Liquid-Systems 
