1.	Which manner is a chemical or biochemical plant not operated in?
a)	Continuous
b)	Batch-wise
c)	Semi-continuous
d)	Discontinuous
d
2.	When is a separation process not required in a manufacturing process?
a)	When there is a decomposition reaction
b)	When there is a complete conversion
c)	When the byproducts are in form of gases
d)	When the reaction is reversible
b
3.	If only 5% of Ethylene is converted to Ethylene glycol, why is there a need of separation process?
a)	To feed more reactant to the reacting mixture
b)	To remove the ethylene glycol formed
c)	To recover the unreacted Ethylene Glycol
d)	To start an intermediate reaction
c
4.
Will the above reaction require a separation process?
a)	Yes
b)	No
b
5.	How is the Diethyl Ether removed in the manufacturing of ethanol from ethylene?
a)	Directly removed
b)	Crude distillation column
c)	Low pressure flash drum
d)	Light-ends tower
d
6.	Chemical reactions require feed mixtures from non-renewable resources like coal, petroleum. What is used in place of non-renewable sources?
a)	Sunlight
b)	Biomass
c)	Biodiesel
d)	Microorganisms
b
7.	Which of the following is a condition of operation for biochemical plant?
a)	Metallic catalyst
b)	Chemical catalyst
c)	Elevated temperature
d)	Non-pathologic state of the organism
d
8.	In a biochemical plant, what do the physiological conditions vary with?
a)	The reaction
b)	State of the products
c)	The micro-organism
d)	The ambient conditions
c
9.	How can be citric acid produced other than from lemons?
a)	Aerobic fermentation of starch
b)	Anaerobic fermentation of starch
c)	Aerobic fermentation of glucose
d)	Anaerobic fermentation of glucose
a
10.	Which of the following separation techniques is NOT used in the process of manufacturing of citric acid ?
a)	Ultrafiltration
b)	Ion-exchange
c)	Crystallization
d)	Distillation
d
11.	What separation technique is used when a separation operation is accompanied by chemical reaction that facilitates separation?
a)	Distillation
b)	Fractional distillation
c)	Reactive distillation
d)	Fractional crystallization
c
12.	Which of the following machines do not require a chemical separation technique?
a)	The washing machine
b)	Refrigerator
c)	Coffee machine
d)	Water cooler
c
13.	Which of the following is NOT an importance of separation process?
a)	Reduces the operating cost
b)	Reduces the risk of explosion
c)	Reduces the probability of side reactions
d)	Increases the speed of the reaction
d
14.	Which of the following is NOT used to represent a chemical process?
a)	Block flow diagram
b)	Process-flow diagram
c)	Flow chart
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Separation Processes.
To practice all areas of Separation Processes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
» Next - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Basic separation Techniques 
