1. What is the role of Energy-separating agent (ESA)?
a) Involves heat transfer
b) Involves mass transfer
c) Acts as an agitator
d) Is a catalyst
a
2. Which of the following is NOT a disadvantages of using a mass-separating agent (MSA) ?
a) Need for additional separator to remove MSA
b) Possible MSA contamination
c) Difficult design procedures
d) Need for large quantities of MSA
d
3. Which separation process is used when the volatility differences is too small between the species?
a) Flash vaporization
b) Stripping
c) Extractive distillation
d) Liquid-Liquid extraction
c
4. What is added when it is difficult to condense vapors leaving the distillation column at top?
a) Adsorbent
b) Absorbent
c) Agitator
d) ESA
b
5. Which separation technique shall be used to remove ethane and lower molecular weight hydrocarbons for LPG production?
a) Flash vaporization
b) Distillation
c) Reboiled absorption
d) Stripping
c
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Which separation technique shall be employed to separate acetone and methanol?
a) Extractive distillation
b) Stripping
c) Liquid-Liquid extraction
d) Evaporation
a
7. In azeotropic distillation, why is an entrainer added?
a) To increase the boiling point of the mixture
b) To decrease the boiling point of the mixture
c) To form a minimum boiling point azeotrope
d) To form two immiscible phases
c
8. When is the liquid-liquid extraction preferred over distillation?
a) When the distillation apparatus is not available
b) Distillation apparatus is costly
c) When there too very high difference in the boiling points.
d) When the liquid mixture is temperature sensitive
d
9. Which of the following solvents can be added during separation of Isopropyl alcohol and water?
a) Methanol
b) Ethanol
c) Benzene
d) Alcoholic KOH
c
10. How is sulphur separated from its impurities?
a) Desublimation
b) Sublimation
c) Crystallization
d) Drying
b
11. Where is the technique of leaching used?
a) Research laboratories
b) Soap industry
c) Pharmaceutical industry
d) Metallurgical industry
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Separation Processes.
To practice all areas of Separation Processes for Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Basic separation Techniques» Next - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – separations by Solid Agents and Barriers 
