1. Which is the simple and the oldest technique for solvent extraction?
a) Spray column
b) Packed column
c) Plate column
d) Decanter
a
2. Why are spray columns rarely used?
a) High cost
b) High efficiency
c) More size of equipment required
d) Due to axial dispersion
d
3. How does packing the column help?
a) Lessens the mass transfer
b) Increases the mass transfer by not breaking the large drops
c) Decreases the interfacial area
d) Increases the mass transfer by breaking the large droplets thus increasing interfacial area
d
4. Why is HETP larger than for staged devices?
a) To avoid overflow
b) To avoid back-mixing
c) To avoid the cost increment
d) To get full efficiency
b
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
5. What is the use of plate columns?
a) Increases axial mixing
b) Reduces axial mixing by packing columns
c) Reduces axial mixing and promotes a stage-wise type of contact
d) Reduces the cost
c
6. Why are the extraction rates in sieve plate columns high?
a) Because the dispersed droplets coalesce and reform on each plate
b) Because the dispersed droplets don’t coalesce and reform on each plate
c) Because the dispersed droplets coalesce and not reform on each plate
d) Because the dispersed droplets neither coalesce nor reform on each plate
a
7. How is agitation not induced in columns?
a) Oscillating pulse to liquid
b) Rotating agitators
c) By moving plates back and forth
d) By using mixers
d
8. How agitation is achieved in the scheibel column?
a) Liquid phases are contacted in fixed intervals by unbafled, flat bladed, turbine type agitators
b) By moving plates
c) By hands
d) Gravity separation
a
9. What type of agitator is rotating disk agitator?
a) Rotating agitator
b) By moving plates
c) By hands
d) Gravity separation
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Separation Processes.
To practice all areas of Separation Processes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Equipment for Solvent Extraction(a)» Next - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Hunter-Nash Graphical Equilibrium Stage Method 
