1. What are cascades?
a) They are the one step separation processes
b) They are the last part of separation processes
c) They are an aggregation of stages
d) They are the starting part of every separation process
c
2. What is NOT the need of cascades?
a) To accomplish separation that cannot be attained in one step
b) To increase the purity of products
c) To reduce the amount of mass or energy separating agents required
d) To make the efficient use of raw materials
b
3. Countercurrent cascades are not prevalent in which process?
a) Crystallization
b) Distillation
c) Stripping
d) Liquid-liquid extraction
a
4. What is used when the extent of separation is limited by a single step separation?
a) Distillation and pervaporation
b) Cascades
c) Multistage process
d) Hybrid systems
d
5. Which is a widely used cascade?
a) Cross-current cascade
b) Linear Counter current cascade
c) Linear concurrent cascade
d) Single section cascade
b
6. Batch crystallization uses which type of cascades?
a) Cross-current cascade
b) Linear Counter current cascade
c) Linear concurrent cascade
d) Two dimensional diamond configuration
d
7. Which cascades are not useful in separating key components?
a) Single section cascades
b) Two section countercurrent cascades
c) Interlinked system of countercurrent cascades
d) Three section cascades
a
8. Which cascade is used in fractional liquid-liquid extraction?
a) Two section countercurrent cascade
b) Cross current cascade
c) Two-dimensional diamond configuration
d) Interlinked system of countercurrent cascades
a
9. Leaching uses which cascade configuration?
a) Single section countercurrent
b) Cross current cascade
c) Two dimensional diamond configuration
d) Interlinked system of countercurrent cascades
a
10. Which cascade does not consist of single section?
a) Single section countercurrent cascades
b) Crosscurrent cascades
c) Interlinked system of countercurrent cascades
d) Two dimensional diamond configuration
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Separation Processes.
To practice all areas of Separation Processes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Multiphase Systems» Next - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Solid-liquid Cascades 
