1. What is a nomograph?
a) A graph containing relationship between two quantities
b) A graph containing relationship between three quantities
c) A graph containing relationship between three or more quantities
d) A graph containing diagrams
c
2. The convergence pressure depends on what?
a) Densities of the components
b) Amounts of the components
c) Melting points of the components
d) Boiling points of the components
d
3. What is the convergence pressure for narrow boiling point mixtures?
a) less than 5000psia
b) less than 2500psia
c) less than 1000psia
d) less than 500psia
c
4. Why are there no charts available for liquid-liquid distribution?
a) The values are different every time
b) Because of pronounced effect of composition
c) Because the distribution is tough to find
d) There is no convergence pressure
b
5. What estimation is available for dilute solutions that are ternary and contain almost immiscible solvents?
a) A tabular distribution of partition coefficients by robins
b) A tabular distribution of partition coefficients by keller
c) A tabular distribution of partition coefficients by Haden
d) A tabular distribution of partition coefficients by Grayson
a
6. What Is NOT the use of plots of thermodynamic properties?
a) Used to establish correlations.
b) Used to make general observation
c) Used to extrapolate and find unknown quantities
d) Used to know the purity
d
7. Which equation is fitted in the plot of vapor pressure versus temperature?
a) Roult’s law
b) Newton’s law
c) Antoine Equation
d) Gibb’s equation
c
8. How are Nomographs used?
a) They give the direct reading
b) By joining the lines and extrapolating
c) By finding out points, joining the lines and extrapolating
d) Nomographs are ancient and thus not used
c
9. If the partial vapor pressure of the component is 1000pa in the gaseous mixture and the vapor pressure of pure component is 2000pa what is the mole fraction of the solute?
a) 2
b) 1
c) 1.5
d) 0.5
d
10. What is the K-value if the partial vapor pressure of the component is 360Pa in gaseous mixture and the vapor pressure of pure component is 500Pa.
a) 0.43
b) 0.55
c) 0.72
d) 0.88
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Separation Processes.
To practice all areas of Separation Processes for Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Ideal gas and Ideal Liquid-Solution Model» Next - Separation Processes Questions and Answers – Non-ideal Thermodynamic Property Models 
