1. Which of the following is the correct expansion of FSSAI?
a) Food Security and Standards Authority of India
b) Food Safety and Security Authority of India
c) Food Safety and Surety Authority of India
d) Food Safety and Standards Authority of India
d
2. In which year was Food Safety and Standards act enacted?
a) 2005
b) 2000
c) 2006
d) 2011
c
3. Which of the following is the appropriate expansion of NABL?
a) National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration of Laboratories
b) National Accreditation Board for Testing and Certification of Laboratories
c) National Accreditation Board for Laboratories
d) National Accreditation Board for Certification of Laboratories
a
4. BIS gives process specific certification.
a) True
b) False
b
5. Best-before and Use-by dates on packets have the same meaning.
a) True
b) False
b
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Which of the following can be used instead of Expiry-date on packages?
a) Best-before date
b) Use-by date
c) Marketable-by date
d) Marketable-before date
b
7. ‘Health claim’ and ‘Nutritional claim’ are two different labels.
a) True
b) False
a
8. Which of the following is the correct expansion of CAC?
a) Cognitive Alimentarius Commission
b) Cognitive Alimentarius Corporation
c) Codex Alimentarius Corporation
d) Codex Alimentarius Commission
d
9. Which of the following is the correct expansion of FDA?
a) Food and Drug Affiliation
b) Food and Drug Administration
c) Food and Drug Abuse
d) Food and Drug Authority
b
10. Which of the following is the correct expansion of BIS?
a) Branch of Indian Standards
b) Bureau for Investigation of Standards
c) Bureau of International Standards
d) Bureau of Indian Standards
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Packaging Technology.
To practice all questions papers on Food Packaging Technology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Packaging Technology Questions and Answers – Packaging Laws & Regulations – 1 
