1. Which of the following testing is concerned with making decisions using data?
a) Probability
b) Hypothesis
c) Causal
d) None of the mentioned
b
2. Point out the correct statement.
a) Power of a one sided test is lower than the power of the associated two sided test
b) Power of a two sided test is greater than the power of the associated one sided test
c) Hypothesis testing is less commonly used
d) None of the mentioned
d
3. Which of the following value is the most common measure of “statistical significance”?
a) P
b) A
c) L
d) All of the mentioned
a
4. What is the purpose of multiple testing in statistical inference?
a) Minimize errors
b) Minimize false positives
c) Minimize false negatives
d) All of the mentioned
d
5. Point out the wrong statement with respect to FDR.
a) FDR is difficult to calculate
b) FDR is relatively less conservative
c) FDR allows for more false positives
d) None of the mentioned
a
6. Which of the following is the oldest multiple testing correction?
a) Bonferroni correction
b) Bernoulli correction
c) Likelihood correction
d) All of the mentioned
a
7. The pooled estimator is a mixture of the group variances, placing greater weight on whichever has a larger sample size.
a) True
b) False
a
8. Which of the following tool is used for constructing confidence intervals and calculating standard errors for difficult statistics?
a) baggyer
b) bootstrap
c) jacknife
d) none of the mentioned
b
9. Which of the following tool is used for estimating standard errors and the bias of estimators?
a) knitr
b) jackknife
c) ggplot2
d) all of the mentioned
c
10. Power is the probability of rejecting the null hypothesis when it is true.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Data Science.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Data Science.
To practice basic questions on all areas of Data Science, Here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Data Science Questions and Answers – Likelihood» Next - Data Science Questions and Answers – Introduction to Regression Models 
