1. Which of the following principle is incorrectly represented in the below figure?
a) Show Comparisons
b) Integrate Evidence
c) Describe Evidence
d) None of the mentioned
d
2. Point out the correct statement.
a) Least square is an estimation tool
b) Least square problems falls in to three categories
c) Compound least square is one of the category of least square
d) None of the mentioned
a
3. How many principles of analytical graphs exist?
a) 3
b) 4
c) 6
d) None of the mentioned
c
4. Which of the following is not a step in data analysis?
a) Obtain the data
b) Clean the data
c) EDA
d) None of the mentioned
d
5. Point out the wrong statement.
a) Simple linear regression is equipped to handle more than one predictor
b) Compound linear regression is not equipped to handle more than one predictor
c) Linear regression consists of finding the best-fitting straight line through the points
d) All of the mentioned
a
6. Which of the following technique comes under practical machine learning?
a) Bagging
b) Boosting
c) Forecasting
d) None of the mentioned
b
7. Data Products shown in the below figure is built using which programming language?
a) S
b) Python
c) R
d) Java
c
8. Which of the following technique is also referred to as Bagging?
a) Bootstrap aggregating
b) Bootstrap subsetting
c) Bootstrap predicting
d) All of the mentioned
a
9. Which of the following is characteristic of Raw Data?
a) Data is ready for analysis
b) Original version of data
c) Easy to use for data analysis
d) None of the mentioned
b
10. Standard normal RVs are always labelled as Z.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Data Science.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Data Science.
To practice all areas of Data Science, Here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Data Science Questions and Answers – Basics of Data Science» Next - Data Science Questions and Answers – CLI and Git Workflow – 1 
