1. Which of the following function can be replaced with the question mark in the below figure?
a) boxplot
b) lplot
c) levelplot
d) all of the mentioned
c
2. Point out the correct statement.
a) The mean is a measure of central tendency of the data
b) Empirical mean is related to “centering” the random variables
c) The empirical standard deviation is a measure of spread
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. Which of the following implies no relationship with respect to correlation?
a) Cor(X, Y) = 1
b) Cor(X, Y) = 0
c) Cor(X, Y) = 2
d) All of the mentioned
b
4. Normalized data are centered at ___ and have units equal to standard deviations of the original data.
a) 0
b) 5
c) 1
d) 10
a
5. Point out the wrong statement.
a) Regression through the origin yields an equivalent slope if you center the data first
b) Normalizing variables results in the slope being the correlation
c) Least squares is not an estimation tool
d) None of the mentioned
c
6. Which of the following is correct with respect to residuals?
a) Positive residuals are above the line, negative residuals are below
b) Positive residuals are below the line, negative residuals are above
c) Positive residuals and negative residuals are below the line
d) All of the mentioned
a
7. Minimizing the likelihood is the same as maximizing -2 log likelihood.
a) True
b) False
a
8. Which of the following refers to the circumstance in which the variability of a variable is unequal across the range of values of a second variable that predicts it?
a) Heterogeneity
b) Heteroskedasticity
c) Heteroelasticty
d) None of the mentioned
b
9. Which of the following outcome is odd man out in the below figure?
a) R Squared
b) Kappa
c) RMSE
d) All of the mentioned
b
10. Residuals are useful for investigating best model fit.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Data Science.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Data Science.
To practice all areas of Data Science, Here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Data Science Questions and Answers – Statistical Inference Concepts» Next - Data Science Questions and Answers – Residual Variation and Multivariate 
