1. Which of the following is correct about regularized regression?
a) Can help with bias trade-off
b) Cannot help with model selection
c) Cannot help with variance trade-off
d) All of the mentioned
a
2. Point out the wrong statement.
a) Model based approach may be computationally convenient
b) Model based approach use Bayes theorem
c) Model based approach are reasonably inaccurate on real problems
d) All of the mentioned
c
3. Which of the following methods are present in caret for regularized regression?
a) ridge
b) lasso
c) relaxo
d) all of the mentioned
d
4. Which of the following method can be used to combine different classifiers?
a) Model stacking
b) Model combining
c) Model structuring
d) None of the mentioned
a
5. Point out the correct statement.
a) Combining classifiers improves interpretability
b) Combining classifiers reduces accuracy
c) Combining classifiers improves accuracy
d) All of the mentioned
c
6. Which of the following function provides unsupervised prediction?
a) cl_forecast
b) cl_nowcast
c) cl_precast
d) none of the mentioned
d
7. Model based prediction considers relatively easy version for covariance matrix.
a) True
b) False
b
8. Which of the following is used to assist the quantitative trader in the development?
a) quantmod
b) quantile
c) quantity
d) mboost
a
9. Which of the following function can be used for forecasting?
a) predict
b) forecast
c) ets
d) all of the mentioned
b
10. Predictive analytics is same as forecasting.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Data Science.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Data Science.
To practice all areas of Data Science, Here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Data Science Questions and Answers – Predicting with Regression» Next - Data Science Questions and Answers – Shiny 
