1. Which of the following would be more appropriate to be replaced with question mark in the following figure?
a) Data Analysis
b) Data Science
c) Descriptive Analytics
d) None of the mentioned
b
2. Point out the correct statement.
a) Raw data is original source of data
b) Preprocessed data is original source of data
c) Raw data is the data obtained after processing steps
d) None of the mentioned
a
3. Which of the following is performed by Data Scientist?
a) Define the question
b) Create reproducible code
c) Challenge results
d) All of the mentioned
d
4. Which of the following is the most important language for Data Science?
a) Java
b) Ruby
c) R
d) None of the mentioned
c
5. Point out the wrong statement.
a) Merging concerns combining datasets on the same observations to produce a result with more variables
b) Data visualization is the organization of information according to preset specifications
c) Subsetting can be used to select and exclude variables and observations
d) All of the mentioned
b
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Which of the following approach should be used to ask Data Analysis question?
a) Find only one solution for particular problem
b) Find out the question which is to be answered
c) Find out answer from dataset without asking question
d) None of the mentioned
b
7. Which of the following is one of the key data science skills?
a) Statistics
b) Machine Learning
c) Data Visualization
d) All of the mentioned
d
8. Which of the following is a key characteristic of a hacker?
a) Afraid to say they don’t know the answer
b) Willing to find answers on their own
c) Not Willing to find answers on their own
d) All of the mentioned
b
9. Which of the following is characteristic of Processed Data?
a) Data is not ready for analysis
b) All steps should be noted
c) Hard to use for data analysis
d) None of the mentioned
b
10. Raw data should be processed only one time.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Data Science.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Data Science.
To practice all areas of Data Science, Here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
» Next - Data Science Questions and Answers – ToolBox Overview 
