1. Which of the following is an example of tidy data?
a) complicated JSON from facebook API
b) complicated JSON from Twitter API
c) unformatted excel file
d) all of the mentioned
d
2. Point out the correct statement.
a) Nearly 80% of data analysis is spent on wrangling data
b) Nearly 20% of data analysis is spent on data dredging
c) Nearly 80% of data analysis is spent on the cleaning and preparing data
d) None of the mentioned
c
3. Which of the following is a trait of tidy data?
a) each variable in one column
b) each observation in different row
c) one table for each kind of variable
d) none of the mentioned
b
4. Which of the following package is used for tidy data?
a) tidyr
b) souryr
c) NumPy
d) all of the mentioned
a
5. Point out the wrong statement.
a) Tidy datasets are all alike but every messy dataset is messy in its own way
b) Most statistical datasets are data frames made up of rows and columns
c) Tidy datasets provide a standardized way to link the structure of a dataset with its semantics
d) None of the mentioned
d
6. Which of the following process involves structuring datasets to facilitate analysis?
a) Data tidying
b) Data mining
c) Data booting
d) All of the mentioned
a
7. Strange binary file generated from machines is an example of tidy data.
a) True
b) False
b
8. Which of the following is the most common problem with messy data?
a) Column headers are values
b) Variables are stored in both rows and columns
c) A single observational unit is stored in multiple tables
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. tidyr is a reframing of _______ designed to accompany the tidy data framework.
a) reshape5
b) dplyr
c) reshape2
d) all of the mentioned
c
10. Raw data in the real-world is tidy and properly formatted.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Data Science.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Data Science.
To practice tricky questions on all areas of Data Science, Here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Data Science Questions and Answers – Raw and Processed Data» Next - Data Science Questions and Answers – Reading from Web and APIs – 1 
