1. Type strain is used for referring to?
a) species
b) genus
c) family
d) division
a
2. The correct order of taxonomic groups from higher to lower rank is?
a) Kingdom—Order—Class—Family
b) Order—Class—Division—Family—Genus—Species
c) Kingdom—Order—Division—Family—Class—Genus—Species
d) Kingdom—Division—Class—Order—Family—Genus—Species
d
3. % Similarity (%S) of each strain to every other strain is calculated by which method?
a) Intuitive Method
b) Numerical Taxonomy
c) Genetic Relatedness
d) DNA homology experiments
b
                     NS+ND
  where, %S is % similarity of each strain to every other strain, NS is the number of characteristics that are the same for the two strains, and ND is the number of characteristics that are different. Thus this is determined by numerical taxonomy.
4. Two organisms which are very closely related to each other have which of the following property?
a) similar mol% G+C values
b) different mol% G+C values
c) similar mol% G+C values and heteroduplexes are formed
d) different mol% G+C values and heteroduplexes are not formed
c
5. What are ribosomes composed of?
a) Proteins
b) DNA
c) RNA
d) Proteins and RNA
d
6. If two organisms are distantly related and show no DNA homology there still may be similarity in their rRNA cistrons.
a) True
b) False
a
7. Which of the following are characteristics of archaebacterial different from eubacteria?
a) methane-producers
b) extreme halophiles
c) thermoacidophiles
d) methane-producers, extreme halophiles, and thermoacidophiles
d
8. Which among the following come under Gram-positive eubacteria?
a) Clostridium
b) Actinomyces
c) Rhizobium
d) Clostridium, Actinomyces
d
9. Which among the following kingdoms were proposed by Whittaker?
a) Monera
b) Protista, Fungi
c) Plantae, Animalia
d) Monera,Protista,Fungi,Plantae,Animalia
d
10. According to Bergey’s Manual of Systematic Bacteriology, prokaryotes that lack a cell wall belong to the group?
a) Gracilicutes
b) Firmicutes
c) Tenericutes
d) Mendosicutes
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microbiology.
To practice all areas of Microbiology, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microbiology Questions and Answers – Major Characteristics of Microorganisms» Next - Microbiology Questions and Answers – Microorganisms Microscopic Examination – Light Microscope 
