1. Which of the following is a characteristic of beef extract?
a) product resulting from the digestion of proteinaceous materials
b) aqueous extract of lean beef tissue
c) aqueous extract of yeast cells
d) complex carbohydrate obtained from certain marine algae
b
2. Which of the following is used as a solidifying agent for media?
a) Beef extract
b) Peptone
c) Agar
d) Yeast extract
c
3. Which of the following is a rich source of B vitamins?
a) Peptone
b) Yeast extract
c) Beef extract
d) Agar
b
4. The isolation of gonorrhea-causing organism, Neisseria gonorrhoeae by the use of certain antibiotics in media is an example of which of the following?
a) Selective media
b) Differential media
c) Enriched media
d) Assay media
a
5. Nutrient broth, a liquid media contains beef extract and peptone respectively in how much amounts?
a) 0.2%, 0.4%
b) 0.1%, 0.6%
c) 0.3%, 0.5%
d) 0.7%, 0.3%
c
6. Which of the following instrument is used for sterilizing the media after it has been prepared?
a) Autoclave
b) Laminar Air Flow Chamber
c) Inoculum Needle
d) Incubator
a
7. Colony formation can be observed in liquid media broth.
a)True
b) False
b
8. Which of the following is a Complex media for fungal growth?
a) Nutrient broth
b) Luria-Bertani media
c) Potato Dextrose Agar(PDA) media
d) Mac Conkey Agar media
c
9. Which of the following are functions of Maintenance Media?
a) used for assay of vitamins, amino acids
b) used for determining the bacterial content
c) used for determining the type of growth produced by bacteria
d) used for the maintenance of the viability and physiological characteristics
d
10. Which of the following bacteria requires nicotinic acid as a growth factor in their media?
a) Proteus vulgaris
b) Nitrosomonas sp.
c) E. coli
d) Leuconostoc mesenteroides
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microbiology.
To practice all areas of Microbiology, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microbiology Questions and Answers – Bacteria Cultivation – Nutritional Requirements» Next - Microbiology Questions and Answers – Bacteria Cultivation – Physical Conditions Required for Growth 
