1. What is a dual fuel engine?
a) The engine which uses gaseous and liquid fuel
b) The engine which uses two liquid fuels
c) The engine which uses two gaseous fuels
d) The engine which uses one liquid and any other fuel
a
2. Which of the following has the same combustion as HCCI (Homogeneous Charge Compression Ignition) engine?
a) SI engine
b) CI engine
c) Hybrid of both SI and CI engine
d) Wankel engine
c
3. Which of the following is true for the HCCI engine?
a) Emits high NOx and soot
b) Have a large power range
c) Efficiency is comparatively less
d) Pre-catalyst hydrocarbon emissions are higher
d
4. For which of the following engine lean-burn concept is ideal?
a) CI engine
b) SI engine
c) Free piston engine
d) Wankel engine
b
5. By which technique can the charge stratification be achieved?
a) Injection
b) Carburetion
c) Lean burn technology
d) Injection as well as carburation
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Which of the following is true for stratified charge engine?
a) More prone for knock
b) Multi-fuel capabilities
c) More throttling losses
d) Overall rich mixture
b
7. What is true about the Wankel engine?
a) It is a rotary external combustion engine
b) It is more expensive
c) It has a longer operating cycle
d) It has less time to complete the combustion
c
8. Where is the variable compression ratio used?
a) SI engine
b) CI engine
c) Wankel engine
d) HCCI engine
a
9. Which of the following is true for stratified charge engine?
a) More prone for knock
b) It uses an overall rich mixture
c) It has a lot of throttling losses
d) It has multi-fuel capabilities
d
10. Which of the following is true about the Stirling engine?
a) High efficiency
b) Quiet operation
c) Compatible with alternative and renewable energy
d) High efficiency, quiet operation and compatible with renewable energy
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automobile Engineering.
To practice all areas of Automobile Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automobile Engineering Questions and Answers – Measurements and Testing» Next - Automobile Engineering Questions and Answers – Storage Batteries 
