1. Why is radiator provided?
a) To cool the jacket water
b) To pressurize the cooling water
c) To provide additional water flow
d) To cool the external surface of the engine
a
2. Why is thermostat used?
a) To control the velocity of water
b) To control the distribution of water to various cylinders
c) To control the water temperature
d) To control the pressure of water
c
3. What is the advantage of the liquid cooling system?
a) Dependent only on water supply
b) Power absorbed by the pump is considerable
c) Even cooling
d) Very cheap
c
4. What is the material of the radiator cooling tube?
a) Rubber
b) Plastic
c) Brass
d) Copper
d
5. What is a direct system of cooling the air?
a) Cooling water flows by gravity
b) Hot water is continuously cooled and circulated
c) Hot water is simply discharged
d) Water is allowed to evaporate in the cylinder jacket
c
Join [email protected]
6. Which pump is used in a forced cooling system?
a) Piston pump
b) Gear pump
c) Vane pump
d) Centrifugal pump
d
7. What is the purpose of the thermostat in an engine cooling system?
a) To allow the engine to warm-up quickly
b) To prevent the coolant from boiling
c) To pressurize the system
d) To indicate to the driver the coolant temperature
a
8. Why does the engine overheating happen?
a) Due to a broken fan belt
b) Due to excess coolant
c) Due to an open thermostat
d) Due to the stuck radiator pressure cap
a
9. What is the purpose of a fan in a liquid cooling system?
a) To disperse engine fumes
b) To pump cold air over the hot water
c) To cool the external surface of the engine
d) To drive airflow when the vehicle speed is low
b
10. How does the water circulation happen in a thermosyphon cooling system?
a) Due to conduction currents
b) Due to a gear drove water pump
c) Due to change in the density of water
d) Due to a belt-driven water impeller
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automobile Engineering.
To practice all areas of Automobile Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automobile Engineering Questions and Answers – Conventional Fuels 
