1. Which instrument is used for adjusting the ignition timing?
a) Accurate clock
b) Tachometer
c) Stopwatch
d) Stroboscopic light
d
2. Which of the following firing order is commonly used for the four-cylinder vertical engine?
a) 1-2-3-4
b) 3-4-1-2
c) 4-3-2-1
d) 1-3-4-2
d
3. What is the dwell time?
a) It is the time for which the contact breaker points remain closed
b) It is the time for which the contact breaker points remain open
c) The time during which inlet and exhaust valves open
d) The time during which inlet and exhaust valves close
a
4. Which of the following is not considered while deciding the optimum firing order of the engine?
a) Engine vibration
b) Engine cooling
c) Development of the backpressure
d) Engine configuration
d
5. Why is the Dwell meter used?
a) To set the spark plug gap
b) To set the ignition advance
c) To set the contact breaker gap
d) To set ignition timing
c
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Which of the following is the disadvantage of the magneto ignition system?
a) Magneto ignition system has a poor quality of spark during starting
b) Magneto ignition system occupies more space
c) Magneto ignition system has more maintenance problems
d) Magneto ignition system is used largely in four wheels
a
7. For how many times the contact breaker must make and break the circuit for a four-cylinder engine operating at N rpm?
a) N times
b) 1.5N times
c) N/2 times
d) 2N times
d
8. Which of the following is the wrong statement?
a) In the exhaust, retarded timing causes burning of the hydrocarbons
b) The retarded timing improves fuel economy
c) The retarded timing requires the small opening for correct burning of the fuel
d) The exhaust gas temperature becomes higher due to retarded time
b
9. On which condition does the vacuum advance mechanism shift the ignition point?
a) Under part-load operation
b) Under full load operation
c) Under no-load operation
d) Under sudden acceleration
a
10. The optimum spark timing must be retarded for the engine operating with a rich mixture.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automobile Engineering.
To practice all areas of Automobile Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automobile Engineering Questions and Answers – Braking System» Next - Automobile Engineering Questions and Answers – Alternative Fuels for IC Engines 
