1. The front axle of a car has pivot centers 1.3 m apart. The angle of inside lock is 40℃ and the angle of the outside lock is 35℃. What is the wheelbase of the car?
a) 5.5 m
b) 3.5 m
c) 4.5 m
d) 6.5
a
2. If the wheelbase, the pivot center, and wheel track of the are 2.5 m, 1.1 m, and 1.3 m respectively. The angle of the inside lock is 42℃. What is the circle radius of the outer front wheel?
a) 2.6 m
b) 3.6 m
c) 4.6 m
d) 1.6 m
b
3. What is the angle between the steering axis and the vertical in the plane of the wheel?
a) Castor
b) Camber
c) Steering axis inclination
d) Kingpin inclination
a
4. If the front of the front wheels is inside and rear of front wheels are apart when the vehicle is at rest, then the configuration is called?
a) Toe-in
b) Toe out
c) Positive camber
d) Positive castor
a
5. What is the name of the angle through which the wheel has to turn to sustain the side force?
a) Slip angle
b) Castor angle
c) Camber
d) Kingpin inclination
a
6. What is called the cornering force over the slip angle?
a) Castor trail
b) Cornering power
c) Self-righting torque
d) Pneumatic trail
b
7. What is a condition called when the vehicle will try to move away from its normal direction and to keep it on the right path there is need to steer a little?
a) Understeer
b) Oversteer
c) Reversibility
d) Irreversibility
a
8. What is the purpose of the reciprocating ball type steering gear?
a) To reduce the operating cost
b) To reduce the number of parts
c) To reduce the operating friction
d) To reduce the toe-out during the turns
c
9. What is the angle between the vertical when the top of the wheel slants outward?
a) Negative camber
b) Negative castor
c) Positive camber
d) Positive castor
c
10. The furniture rollers are provided with negative castor.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automobile Engineering.
To practice all areas of Automobile Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automobile Engineering Questions and Answers – Universal Joints and Differential» Next - Automobile Engineering Questions and Answers – Braking System 
