1. Which of the following is the knock sensor?
a) Flap type sensor
b) Thermocouples
c) Thermistors
d) Piezoelectric pickup
d
2. What is the use of the lambda sensors in the catalytic converter?
a) To keep excess air ratio within a range
b) To keep the flow rate of constant air
c) To keep the exhaust pressure constant
d) To keep the exhaust temperature constant
a
3. Where are the electro-optical sensors used?
a) Position and speed measurement
b) Piston temperature measurement
c) Cooling water flow measurement
d) Lubricating oil flow measurement
a
4. What is the main use of the strain gauge?
a) To measure viscosity
b) To measure velocity
c) To measure temperature
d) To measure pressure
d
5. What is the use of the hot-wire sensor?
a) To measure temperature
b) To measure the smoke intensity
c) To measure the mass flow rate
d) To measure pressure
c
6. What is the disadvantage of the piezoelectric pressure sensor?
a) It has too much sensitivity
b) It can measure only low pressure
c) It is not suitable for dynamic measurement
d) It can only give pressure difference
d
7. What is LVDT used to measure?
a) Gas temperature
b) Engine speed
c) Crank angle
d) Large displacement
d
8. In which of the following See beck effect is used?
a) Hot-wire sensors
b) Resistance temperature detectors
c) Thermocouples
d) Thermistors
c
9. Which of the following is used by the Hall Effect pickup?
a) Thermistors
b) Potentiometers
c) Inductive transducers
d) Semiconductors
d
10. Vortex sensor is used for measurement of the temperature.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automobile Engineering.
To practice all areas of Automobile Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automobile Engineering Questions and Answers – Vehicles and Powertrain» Next - Automobile Engineering Questions and Answers – Performance Parameters and Characteristics 
