1. If there are 7 clutch plates in a multi-plate clutch, what is the number of pair of contact surfaces?
a) 5
b) 4
c) 6
d) 8
c
2. External diameter of the clutch facing is limited to 120 mm and the inner diameter may be assumed to be 0.3 times the external diameter. Assume uniform wear theory. What is the effective mean radius?
a) 68
b) 58
c) 98
d) 78
d
3. The clutch plate has 160 mm inside and 240 mm outside diameter. The total force provided by the springs is 5 kN, when the clutch is new. The coefficient of friction is 0.4. What is the torque transmitted?
a) 300 Nm
b) 350 Nm
c) 400 Nm
d) 450 Nm
c
4. Which of the following contains no linkage between the clutch and the pedal?
a) Clutch – by – wire
b) Wet clutch
c) Hydraulic single plate clutch
d) Hydraulic multi-plate clutch
a
5. Where is the clutch located?
a) Between transmission and engine
b) Between transmission and rear axle
c) Between transmission and propeller shaft
d) Between transmission and differential
a
6. Which of the following parts of the cover assembly that hold the pressure plate against the clutch plate?
a) Springs
b) Thrust bearings
c) Struts
d) Lever
a
7. Which of the following is the coefficient of friction of the clutch plate?
a) 1.3
b) 0.8
c) 0.4
d) 0.1
c
8. Which of the following is the disadvantage of the cone clutch?
a) It becomes difficult to disengage the clutch when the cone angle is less than 20°
b) It is silent in operation
c) The normal force on the contact surface is larger than the axial force
d) Same torque can be transmitted for the same size as the plate clutch
a
9. The external radius of the cone clutch is 120 mm and the internal radius is 80 mm. The cone angle is kept at 20°. What is the effective mean radius assuming the uniform wear theory?
a) 292 mm
b) 295 mm
c) 100 mm
d) 150 mm
a
10. The dry clutch can tolerate longer engagement time than a wet clutch.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automobile Engineering.
To practice all areas of Automobile Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automobile Engineering Questions and Answers – Lubrication Systems» Next - Automobile Engineering Questions and Answers – Transmission System – Gear Box 
