1. What is the colour of a positive plate of a lead-acid battery?
a) White
b) Grey
c) White
d) Brown
d
2. What gets deposited on the plates of a discharged lead-acid battery?
a) PbO2
b) Pb2O4
c) Pb
d) PbSO4
d
3. What is the twenty-minute rating of battery?
a) Rate of current for 20 minutes with a minimum cell voltage of 1.5 V
b) Time for which the battery can supply 25 A at 80℉ with minimum cell voltage 1.75 V
c) The current which the battery can supply continuously for 30 seconds with minimum cell voltage 1.2 V
d) Lasting power of a battery on a small load
a
4. What is the reserve capacity of battery?
a) Time for which the battery can supply 25 A at 80℉ with minimum cell voltage 1.75 V
b) The current which the battery can supply continuously for 30 seconds with minimum cell voltage 1.2 V
c) Lasting power of a battery on a small load
d) Rate of current for 20 minutes with a minimum cell voltage of 1.5 V
a
5. What is the cold rate of a battery?
a) Lasting power of a battery on a small load
b) Rate of current for 20 minutes with a minimum cell voltage of 1.5 V
c) The current which the battery can supply continuously for 30 seconds with minimum cell voltage 1.2 V
d) Time for which the battery can supply 25 A at 80℉ with minimum cell voltage 1.75 V
c
6. What is a twenty-hour rate of a battery?
a) The current which the battery can supply continuously for 30 seconds with minimum cell voltage 1.2 V
b) Lasting power of a battery on a small load
c) Time for which the battery can supply 25 A at 80℉ with minimum cell voltage 1.75 V
d) Rate of current for 20 minutes with a minimum cell voltage of 1.5 V
b
7. What should a fully-charged 6 cell automotive battery indicate?
a) 12 V
b) 12.6 V
c) The specific gravity of 1.29 at 32℃
d) 12.6 V and the specific gravity of 1.29 at 32℃
d
8. What is the number of positive plates in a battery cell?
a) One more than the negative plates
b) Two less than the negative plates
c) One less than the negative plates
d) Two more than the negative plates
c
9. What is a maintenance-free battery?
a) A battery having lead-antimony plate grid
b) A battery having lead-calcium plate grid
c) A battery does not contain acid
d) A battery does not contain water
b
10. Which of the following is the advantage of alkaline battery?
a) High energy density
b) Good discharge characteristics over a wide range of temperature
c) The specific gravity of electrolyte remains the same
d) Cheap raw materials are used
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automobile Engineering.
To practice all areas of Automobile Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automobile Engineering Questions and Answers – Nonconventional Engines» Next - Automobile Engineering Questions and Answers – Charging System 
