1. Extensions were added in which version?
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4
c
2. The subject unique identifier of the X.509 certificates was added in which version?
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4
b
3. Which of the following is not an element/field of the X.509 certificates?
a) Issuer Name
b) Serial Modifier
c) Issuer unique Identifier
d) Signature
b
4. Suppose that A has obtained a certificate from certification authority X1 and B has obtained certificate authority from CA X2. A can use a chain of certificates to obtain B’s public key. In notation of X.509, this chain is represented in the correct order as –
a) X2 X1 X1 B
b) X1 X1 X2 A
c) X1 X2 X2 B
d) X1 X2 X2 A
c
5. Certificates generated by X that are the certificates of other CAs are Reverse Certificates.
a) True
b) False
a
6. It is desirable to revoke a certificate before it expires because
a) the user is no longer certified by this CA
b) the CA’s certificate is assumed to be compromised
c) the user’s private key is assumed to be compromised
d) all of the mentioned
d
7. CRL stands for
a) Cipher Reusable List
b) Certificate Revocation Language
c) Certificate Revocation List
d) Certificate Resolution Language
c
8. Which of the following is not a part of an Extension?
a) Extension Identifier
b) Extension value
c) Criticality Indicator
d) All of the mentioned constitute the Extension
d
9. The criticality indicator indicates whether an extension can be safely ignored.
a) True
b) False
a
10. “Conveys any desired X.500 directory attribute values for the subject of this certificate.”
Which Extension among the following does this refer to?
a) Subject alternative name
b) Issuer Alternative name
c) Subject directory attributes
d) None of the mentioned
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Cryptography and Network Security.
To practice all areas of Cryptography and Network Security, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Cryptography Questions and Answers – Public Keys and X.509 Certificates-I» Next - Cryptography Questions and Answers – Public Keys and X.509 Certificates-III 
