1. Which of the following factor has helped spur the popularity of collaborative software for conferencing and workgroup support?
a) emergence of cloud networks
b) high cost of computing
c) lowered cost of travel
d) all of the mentioned
a
2. Point out the wrong statement.
a) Yahoo’s Exchange platform added features to compete with Notes
b) SIP stands for Session Initiation Protocol
c) Citrix GoToMeeting is one of the best-known collaboration software product
d) All of the mentioned
a
3. Which of the following software enables real-time or near-real-time communication?
a) Focusware
b) Collaborative
c) Cooperative
d) IMPS
b
4. Which of the following is first ever true collaboration platform?
a) Lotus Notes
b) Citrix GoToMeeting
c) XAMPP
d) None of the mentioned
a
5. Point out the wrong statement.
a) ZCS can synchronize email, contacts, and calendars with a number of mail services, including mobile phones
b) ZCS is a groupware product
c) Yahoo!, the owner of ZCS, makes the source code available under their Yahoo! Public License (YPL)
d) None of the mentioned
d
6. Which of the following product allows users to share their desktop, do presentations, and even let a user remotely take over another user’s computer in real time?
a) Citrix
b) Zimbra
c) Trillian
d) All of the mentioned
a
7. Which of the following platform is a direct competitor to GoToMeeting?
a) Zimbra
b) DimDim
c) RimRim
d) None of the mentioned
b
8. Which of the following is a good example of an SMS service organized into a social network and blog?
a) Twitter
b) Facebook
c) Instagram
d) None of the mentioned
a
9. Which of the following sites let you create your own small personal Website, which you give people access to view?
a) Friendster
b) MySpace
c) Facebook
d) All of the mentioned
d
10. Which of the following is a central element of social networking site?
a) Personal profile
b) Friends
c) Groups
d) All of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Cloud Computing.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Cloud Computing.
To practice all areas of Cloud Computing, Here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Communicating with the Cloud – 2» Next - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Collaboration Technologies – 2 
