1. Which of the following is a push mechanism for publishing Web site data that is device-specific?
a) WAP
b) GPRS
c) GAP
d) None of the mentioned
a
2. Point out the wrong statement.
a) Mobile devices use less network traffic in consuming Web services than do fixed-line systems
b) Mobile devices present some challenges for Web services
c) Many service protocols are specifically aimed at providing the necessary translation required to make Websites look good on mobile devices
d) All of the mentioned
a
3. Which of the following is a form of message push service?
a) FMS
b) SMS
c) RMS
d) All of the mentioned
b
4. Which of the following is the most popular open-system alternative to system like iOS or BlackBerry OS?
a) Android OS
b) Symbian
c) Solaris
d) All of the mentioned
a
5. Point out the correct statement.
a) To use a Web service, a device do not need to know about that service and know-how to access it
b) Mobile devices can transmit specific information about the condition of the device and its user
c) Pull services are an important mechanism in e-mail and in certain forms of publishing
d) None of the mentioned
d
6. Which of the following has made the development of mobile Web applications much easier and more powerful?
a) Web Services
b) Cloud Computing
c) IM
d) None of the mentioned
a
7. Which of the following feature is highly emphasized in an open system for mobile application?
a) scalability
b) integrity
c) interoperability
d) none of the mentioned
c
8. Which of the following factor needs to be addressed while working with mobile applications in the cloud?
a) Different methods of navigation through the interface
b) Slow transmission over the connection
c) Variable screen sizes and resolutions
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. Which of the following is the most common way to approach the problem of interoperability by vendors?
a) create individual sites within a Web site for different devices
b) create scalable websites for different devices
c) create reliable websites for different devices
d) none of the mentioned
a
10. Which of the following repository was created by the Mobile Web Initiative’s Device Description Working Group for mobile interoperability?
a) Device Description
b) Device Attributes
c) Distributed Description
d) All of the mentioned
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Cloud Computing.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Cloud Computing.
To practice all areas of Cloud Computing, Here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Mobile Cloud Applications – 2» Next - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Service Types 
