1. Which of the following is a specific top-level domain created for the producers and consumers of mobile services?
a) MOB
b) .MOBI
c) CELL
d) None of the mentioned
a
2. Point out the wrong statement.
a) Mobile phones are differentiated into feature phones and smartphones
b) Cloud computing offers the capability to run cell phone applications and Web services and to store data remotely
c) The eventual impact of the cloud on mobile devices will be to make them thicker(as client)
d) All of the mentioned
c
3. Which of the following domain is used to create sites that render correctly on mobile devices?
a) Mobile Top Level Domain
b) Mobile Middle Level Domain
c) Mobile Low Level Domain
d) All of the mentioned
a
4. Which of the following tool analyzes Websites and scores them by dotMobi?
a) Ready mobi
b) Call mobi
c) Push mobi
d) All of the mentioned
a
5. Point out the correct statement.
a) Mobile Web services are those in which information is transferred between applications and services over an Internet connection
b) The mobile Web is fractured into many different competing operating systems and proprietary hardware
c) The lack of expandable storage on mobile devices is a classic example of vendor lock-in
d) All of the mentioned
d
6. Which of the following mechanism is suited for content compatibility on the mobile Web?
a) content negotiation
b) content description
c) content attribute
d) none of the mentioned
a
7. Which of the following group aimed at promoting standards on mobile networks?
a) OMTP
b) OTP
c) MTP
d) None of the mentioned
a
8. Which of the following vendors were part of WAC promote the market for mobile applications?
a) Motorola
b) Nokia
c) Sony Ericsson
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. Which of the following framework is used for creating mobile interfaces and subsystems by OMTP?
a) XACML
b) XLST
c) XAM
d) None of the mentioned
a
10. Which of the following standard mobile API is based on a set of JavaScript APIs?
a) CDMA API
b) GSMA OneAPI
c) DesAPI
d) All of the mentioned
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Cloud Computing.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Cloud Computing.
To practice all areas of Cloud Computing, Here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Mobile Web Services» Next - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Service Discovery 
