1. Which of the following is the core module of Android for Internet computing?
a) SQLite RDBMS
b) SQL Server RDBMS
c) OpenPL
d) None of the mentioned
a
2. Point out the wrong statement.
a) Google Chrome to Phone Extension sends links and information from a Chrome browser to an Android phone
b) Voice Actions for Android is a voice command and speech recognition program
c) Google Goggles is used for local search
d) All of the mentioned
c
3. Which of the following Google Application can be found in Android?
a) Google Translate
b) Google Shopper
c) My Tracks
d) All of the mentioned
d
4. Which of the following applications are processed locally on the phone?
a) Google Earth
b) Google Maps
c) Google Voice
d) None of the mentioned
d
5. Point out the correct statement.
a) Voice Actions for Android allows you to use spoken commands to control your Android phone
b) The Android Market is not available on Android phones through the Market application
c) Video is accessed with the microphone button inside the Google search box on the Android home screen
d) None of the mentioned
a
6. Which of the following has not included support for Adobe Flash or Java on its platform?
a) Microsoft
b) Apple
c) Google
d) None of the mentioned
b
7. Which of the following is Apple’s cloud service for hosted email service?
a) MobileMe
b) MobApp
c) MobileCloud
d) None of the mentioned
a
8. Which of the following programming medium is used by MobileMe to create the appearance of a desktop application inside a browser?
a) HTML
b) DHTML
c) Jquery
d) All of the mentioned
b
9. Which of the following is a photo and video sharing service by MobileMe?
a) iDisk
b) Find My iPhone
c) iWeb Publish
d) MobileMe Gallery
d
10. Which of the following is Apple’s instant messaging service that interoperates with AIM?
a) iDisk
b) iChat
c) wechat
d) all of the mentioned
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Cloud Computing.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Cloud Computing.
To practice all areas of Cloud Computing, Here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Mobile Cloud» Next - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Mobile Cloud Applications – 2 
