1. Which of the following is best suited for the analysis of an application’s suitability to be ported to the cloud?
a) Service Attributes
b) Cloud Attributes
c) Application Attributes
d) All of the mentioned
c
2. Point out the correct statement.
a) An application that runs as a service on the Internet has a client portion that makes a request and a server portion that responds to that request
b) In a distributed system, the transaction is stateful
c) In order to create a stateless system in a distributed architecture, a transaction manager or broker must be added so that the intermediary service can account for transactions and react accordingly when they succeed or fail
d) None of the mentioned
a
3. Which of the following is the first level applicable attribute?
a) Availability
b) Monitoring
c) Configuring
d) All of the mentioned
a
4. Which of the following is a second level attribute in relation to scalability?
a) Fault management
b) Caching
c) Expertise
d) Geographic location
c
5. Point out the wrong statement.
a) When applications get moved to the cloud, they do not retain the features of a three-layered architecture
b) Virtual machines are not only stateless
c) Some applications can be successfully ported to the cloud, while others suffer from the translation
d) None of the mentioned
c
6. Which of the following is not a second level attribute in relation to Data Management?
a) Data exchange
b) Staging
c) Index
d) Portability
b
7. Which of the following criteria needs to be met so that key drivers benefit from deployment to the cloud?
a) Are mission critical
b) Do have sensitive data to protect
c) Do need to be customized
d) Are legacy applications with no particular competitive advantage
d
8. APIs and Deployment are second level application attributes in accordance with ____________
a) application
b) costs
c) maintenance
d) user interface
c
9. Which of the attributes is required for the best user interface?
a) User interaction
b) Ease of use
c) Interface features
d) All of the mentioned
d
10. Which of the following is not a second level application attribute?
a) Reliability
b) Resource access
c) Uptime
d) costs
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Cloud Computing.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Cloud Computing.
To practice all areas of Cloud Computing, Here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Applications in the Clouds» Next - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Cloud Service Attributes 
