1. Which of the following correctly describes the following figure?
a) Capacity Planning
b) Performance Planning
c) Network Planning
d) None of the mentioned
a
2. Point out the correct statement.
a) Capacity planning seeks to match demand to available resources
b) Capacity planning examines what systems are in place, measures their performance, and determines patterns in usage that enables the planner to predict demand
c) Resources are provisioned and allocated to meet demand
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. What is the relation of the capacity attribute to performance?
a) same
b) different
c) similar
d) none of the mentioned
b
4. What does L in LAMP stands for?
a) Lamp
b) Linux
c) Lone
d) None of the mentioned
b
5. Point out the wrong statement.
a) Network capacity is one of the easiest factors to determine
b) A system uses resources to satisfy cloud computing demands that include processor, memory, storage, and network capacity
c) Scaling a system can be done by scaling up vertically to more powerful systems
d) All of the mentioned
a
6. Which of the following is one of the major categories of Amazon Machine Instances that you can create on the Amazon Web Service?
a) WAMP
b) XAMPP
c) LAMP
d) None of the mentioned
c
7. Which of the following is used as a substitute for PHP as a scripting language in LAMP?
a) Scala
b) Perl
c) Ruby
d) None of the mentioned
b
8. Which of the following RDBMS is used by LAMP?
a) SQL Server
b) DB2
c) MySQL
d) All of the mentioned
c
9. Which of the following is a critical step in capacity planning?
a) Predict the future based on historical trends and other factors
b) Load the system until it is overloaded
c) Deploy or tear down resources to meet your predictions
d) All of the mentioned
b
10. Which of the following is the hardest factor to determine?
a) Network performance
b) Network capacity
c) Network delay
d) All of the mentioned
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Cloud Computing.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Cloud Computing.
To practice all areas of Cloud Computing, Here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Porting Applications» Next - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Baseline Measurements 
