1. Which of the following is a method for bidding on unused EC2 capacity based on the current spot price?
a) On-Demand Instance
b) Reserved Instances
c) Spot Instance
d) All of the mentioned
c
2. Point out the wrong statement.
a) The standard instances are not suitable for standard server applications
b) High memory instances are useful for large data throughput applications such as SQL Server databases and data caching and retrieval
c) FPS is exposed as an API that sorts transactions into packages called Quick Starts that makes it easy to implement
d) None of the mentioned
a
3. Which of the following instance has an hourly rate with no long-term commitment?
a) On-Demand Instance
b) Reserved Instances
c) Spot Instance
d) All of the mentioned
a
4. Which of the following is a batch processing application?
a) IBM sMash
b) IBM WebSphere Application Server
c) Condor
d) Windows Media Server
c
5. Point out the correct statement.
a) Security can be set through passwords, Kerberos tickets, or certificates
b) Secure access to your EC2 AMIs is controlled by passwords, Kerberos, and 509 Certificates
c) Most of the system image templates that Amazon AWS offers are based on Red Hat Linux
d) All of the mentioned
d
6. How many EC2 service zones or regions exist?
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
7. Amazon ______ cloud-based storage system allows you to store data objects ranging in size from 1 byte up to 5GB.
a) S1
b) S2
c) S3
d) S4
c
8. Which of the following can be done with S3 buckets through the SOAP and REST APIs?
a) Upload new objects to a bucket and download them
b) Create, edit, or delete existing buckets
c) Specify where a bucket should be stored
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. Which of the following operation retrieves the newest version of the object?
a) PUT
b) GET
c) POST
d) COPY
b
10. Which of the following statement is wrong about Amazon S3?
a) Amazon S3 is highly reliable
b) Amazon S3 provides large quantities of reliable storage that is highly protected
c) Amazon S3 is highly available
d) None of the mentioned
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Cloud Computing.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Cloud Computing.
To practice all interview questions on Amazon S3 services, Here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
	
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Amazon Machine Images» Next - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Amazon Elastic Block Store 
