1. What should be the message given by Web Service 3 to Web Service 2 in the following figure for execution in cooperative way?
a) Reply
b) Invoke
c) Reject
d) None of the mentioned
a
2. Point out the correct statement.
a) Some mature SOA implementations favor orchestration over choreography
b) Most mature SOA implementations favor choreography over orchestration
c) With orchestration, multiple service manages the various processes
d) None of the mentioned
d
3. Which of the following element is used by orchestrated business process commonly referred to as?
a) conductor
b) coordinator
c) orchestrator
d) all of the mentioned
c
4. SOA _____ an extension of the Service Oriented Architecture to respond to events that occur as a result of business processes.
a) 2.0
b) 3.0
c) 4.0
d) All of the mentioned
a
5. Point out the wrong statement.
a) Event handling is part of event-driven SOA or SOA 2.0
b) An ESB provides a lower layer for event management with a messaging infrastructure
c) UML is the modeling language of the Object Management Group that provides a method for creating visual models for software
d) None of the mentioned
b
6. Which of the following application has the ability to query event data in the same way that a stock ticker or trading application can query trading data?
a) CVE
b) CEV
c) XML
d) None of the mentioned
a
7. What does CVE in SOA design stand for?
a) Causal Vector Engine
b) Continuous Vector Engine
c) Causal Valuable Engine
d) None of the mentioned
a
8. Which of the following is a collaborative effort where the logic of the business process is pushed out to the members?
a) Orchestration
b) Choreography
c) SOA 2.0
d) None of the mentioned
b
9. In the ______ model, data and messages are exchanged in a Service Data Object (SDO).
a) CSA
b) SCA
c) UDDI
d) None of the mentioned
b
10. How many types of methods are used to combine web services?
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) None of the mentioned
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Cloud Computing.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Cloud Computing.
To practice all areas of Cloud Computing for online quizzes, Here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Service Oriented Architecture» Next - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – The Enterprise Service Bus 
