1. Which of the following is used to aid for locating services in SOA?
a) catalog service
b) data abstraction services
c) data bus
d) all of the mentioned
a
2. Point out the correct statement.
a) An intranet is a network that is constructed through the consolidation of separate networks
b) The Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) is developed by the United Kingdom’s Office of Government Commerce (OGC)
c) Message passing in SOA requires the use of four different protocol types
d) All of the mentioned
b
3. Which of the following catalog service requires some sort of synchronization or update to maintain a unified data store across the servers involved?
a) global
b) standalone
c) federated
d) all of the mentioned
a
4. How many different protocol types are required for message passing in SOA?
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4
b
5. Point out the wrong statement.
a) An ESB is both necessary and essential to a Service Oriented Architecture
b) A client connected to an ESB communicates over a network protocol such as HTTP, Representational State Transfer (REST), or Java Message Service (JMS) to a component (or service)
c) Messages are most often in the form of the SMIL
d) None of the mentioned
c
6. Which of the following combination is possible in WebSphere ESB?
a) XML/JMS
b) SOAP/JMS
c) SOAP/HTTP
d) Governance
b
7. Which of the following statement is incorrect related to catalog servers?
a) They can be standalone catalog servers serving a single site
b) They cannot serve the role of a global catalog service where two or more catalog servers are merged to include several sites
c) They can be part of a federated catalog service
d) None of the mentioned
b
8. Which of the following version of WSDL is a W3C standard?
a) 1.1
b) 2.3
c) 3.1
d) Governance
a
9. Which of the following essential object in WSDL is used to support message transfer?
a) bus
b) binding
c) type
d) none of the mentioned
b
10. Which of the following object is used to describe the data, usually as part of the XML schema?
a) operation
b) prototype
c) types
d) none of the mentioned
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Cloud Computing.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Cloud Computing.
To practice all areas of Cloud Computing, Here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – The Enterprise Service Bus» Next - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Business Process Modeling – 1 
