1. If you have a local version of a file, then a version of that file stored in the cloud conforms to all three of the ______ backup rules.
a) 3-2-1
b) One-two-three
c) 1-2-3
d) All of the mentioned
c
2. Point out the correct statement.
a) Replication creates a copy of the data which is not synchronized
b) An archive removes older information that is no longer operational and saves it for long-term storage
c) Reverse delta backup allows a system to do what is referred to as a bare metal restore
d) All of the mentioned
b
3. Which of the following is the first rule according to 3-2-1 Backup Rule by Peter Krogh?
a) Retain three copies of any file—an original and two backups
b) Files must be on two different media types
c) One copy must be stored offsite
d) All of the mentioned
c
4. Which of the following is an incorrect feature of cloud storage backup solution?
a) Logon authentication
b) Low Encryption
c) Fast backup
d) None of the mentioned
b
5. Point out the wrong statement.
a) In a differential backup, the backup software can obtain the up-to-date backup from the last full backup and the last incremental backup alone
b) Incremental  backup analyzes the transactions that are in progress
c) A cloud storage system contains a certain built-in latency, so unless the original data set is quiescent, the mirror lags behind the original in concurrency
d) None of the mentioned
b
6. Which of the following is the most important feature of cloud storage listed below?
a) Logon authentication
b) Bare file
c) Multiplatform support
d) Adequate bandwidth
a
7. How many bits of encryption is at least required for cloud backup storage solution?
a) 56
b) 84
c) 128
d) None of the mentioned
c
8. Which of the following is the most important client to back up in the cloud?
a) Windows
b) Mac
c) Linux
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. Which of the following service does not support backup on the Linux platform?
a) Backblaze
b) Crashplan
c) Datapreserve
d) ADrive
a
10. Which of the following is the least important feature of cloud storage listed below?
a) Multisite storage or replication
b) 24×7 technical support
c) Data versioning
d) All of the mentioned
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Cloud Computing.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Cloud Computing.
To practice all areas of Cloud Computing, Here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Backup Types» Next - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Cloud Data Management Interface 
