1. Which of the following is a core management feature offered by most cloud management service products?
a) Support of different cloud types
b) Creation and provisioning of different types of cloud resources, such as machine instances, storage, or staged applications
c) Performance reporting including availability and uptime, response time, resource quota usage, and other characteristics
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. Point out the correct statement.
a) Eucalyptus and Rackspace both use Amazon EC2 and S3 services
b) The RightScale user interface provides real-time measurements of individual server instances
c) RightScale server templates and the Rightscript technology are highly configurable and can be run under batch control
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. Which of the following is an industry organization that develops industry system management standards for platform interoperability?
a) DMTF
b) DMS
c) EBS
d) All of the mentioned
a
4. Which of the following is used to extend CIM to virtual computer system management?
a) OVF
b) VMAN
c) OCSI
d) None of the mentioned
b
5. Point out the wrong statement.
a) Cloudkick’s Insight module is powerful and particularly easy to use
b) Both Cloudkick and RightScale are known to be easy to use with Window virtual servers and less so with Linux instances
c) All of the service models support monitoring solutions
d) All of the mentioned
b
6. Which of the following initiative tries to provide a way of measuring cloud computing services along dimension like cost?
a) CCE
b) OCCI
c) SMI
d) All of the mentioned
c
7. Which of the following figure correctly describes products by CA technologies?
a) 
b) 
c) 
d) None of the mentioned
b
8. Which of the following is open and both hypervisor and processor-architecture-agnostic?
a) Dell Scalent
b) CloudKick
c) Elastra
d) All of the mentioned
a
9. Which of the following is a workflow control and policy based automation service by CA?
a) CA Cloud Optimize
b) CA Cloud Orchestrate
c) CA Cloud Insight
d) CA Cloud Compose
b
10. Which of the following monitors the performance of the major cloud-based services in real time in Cloud Commons?
a) CloudWatch
b) CloudSensor
c) CloudMetrics
d) All of the mentioned
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Cloud Computing.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Cloud Computing.
To practice all areas of Cloud Computing, Here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
	
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Cloud Management Products» Next - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Cloud Security 
