1. How many aspects need to be considered while assessing network capacity?
a) one
b) two
c) three
d) all of the mentioned
c
2. Point out the correct statement.
a) For a cloud-based virtual computer, the network interface may be a highly variable resource
b) Increasing the variability between servers makes it easier to troubleshoot problems and simpler to deploy and configure new systems
c) A server with the different set of software, system configuration, and hardware should perform similarly if given the same role in an infrastructure
d) All of the mentioned
a
3. Which of the following is not the aspect considered for network capacity?
a) Network traffic from the cloud to the network interface
b) Network traffic to and from the network interface at the server
c) Network traffic from the cloud through your ISP to your local network interface
d) All of the mentioned
d
4. Which of the following utility is used to monitor traffic in Windows?
a) Microsoft Network Monitor
b) Microsoft Performance Monitor
c) Microsoft Perfmon
d) None of the mentioned
a
5. Point out the wrong statement.
a) Tools are available that can monitor a cloud network’s performance at geographical different points and over different third-party ISP connections
b) Apparent Networks company makes WAN network monitoring software
c) Network Capacity is easy to measure in a reliable way
d) All of the mentioned
c
6. Which of the following packet sniffer was formerly called Ethereal?
a) TCPdump
b) Wireshark
c) Ntop
d) None of the mentioned
b
7. Which of the following factor can be considered to determine WAN Capacity?
a) Routing and switching protocols
b) Overall system traffic
c) Network interconnect technologies
d) All of the mentioned
d
8. __________ scaling allows you to use a virtual system to run more virtual machines.
a) Horizontal
b) Vertical
c) Out
d) All of the mentioned
b
9. Which of the following is used to evaluate your own cloud application’s network performance?
a) Path Cloud
b) PathView Cloud
c) View Cloud
d) All of the mentioned
b
10. Scaling _____ indefinitely leads you to an architecture with a large number of servers.
a) out
b) in
c) vertically
d) all of the mentioned
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Cloud Computing.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Cloud Computing.
To practice all areas of Cloud Computing, Here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
	
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Server and Instance types» Next - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – PaaS Application Frameworks – 1 
