1. Which of the following programming medium makes social networking widgets more prevalent than the past?
a) HTML
b) Java
c) AJAX
d) All of the mentioned
c
2. Point out the wrong statement.
a) Discussions are often indexed by the major search engines
b) Few social networking sites have the ability to create blogs
c) A widget is a small utility that you can add to your page
d) All of the mentioned
b
3. Which of the following is not a social networking site?
a) IRC-Galleria
b) Italki.com
c) Itsmy
d) None of the mentioned
d
4. Which of the following figure is correct according to categories shown?
a) 
b) 
c) 
d) All of the mentioned
b
5. Point out the wrong statement.
a) myYearbook is used for general social network
b) MySpace is used as a social networking site for Asian relationships
c) Livemocha is used for language learning purpose
d) None of the mentioned
b
6. Which of the following social networking site is used for Business and professional networking?
a) LiveJournal
b) Linkedin
c) Mix
d) All of the mentioned
b
7. Which of the following social networking site is used for locating friends and family?
a) MyLife
b) My Opera
c) MyBlogLog
d) None of the mentioned
a
8. Which of the following is the largest Chinese social networking site?
a) Qzone
b) ResearchGATE
c) Renren
d) None of the mentioned
a
9. Which of the following offers a desktop application or browser add-in for aggregating Webmail and social network accounts?
a) FriendFeed
b) ContextMine
c) Gathera
d) All of the mentioned
c
10. Which of the following offers an SaaS service that provides online analysis and measurement of social media tools?
a) Network Insights
b) myZuzu
c) NutshellMail
d) Gnip
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Cloud Computing.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Cloud Computing.
To practice tricky questions on all areas of Cloud Computing, Here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Collaboration Technologies – 1» Next - Cloud Computing Questions and Answers – Media and Streaming 
