1. Which forces are neglected to obtain Euler’s equation of motion from Newton’s second law of motion?
a) Viscous force, Turbulence force, Compressible force
b) Gravity force, Turbulence force, Compressible force
c) Body force, Gravity force, Turbulence force
d) Viscous force, Turbulence force, Body force
a
2. Navier-Stoke’s equation can be obtained from Reynolds’s equation by not considering which type of force?
a) Turbulence force
b) Gravity force
c) Compressible force
d) Viscous force
a
3. In order to apply Bernoulli’s equation across two sections, we have to obtain it from Euler’s equation. What is the operation that needs to be carried out in order to obtain it from Euler’s equation?
a) Partial Differentiation
b) Differentiation
c) Integration
d) None of the mentioned
c
4. Which of the following assumption is incorrect in the derivation of Bernoulli’s equation?
a) The fluid is ideal
b) The flow is steady
c) The flow is incompressible
d) The flow is rotational
d
5. From mathematical perspective if for a fluid curl of velocity vector is some constant value, it is ideal, steady and incompressible, then we can apply Bernoulli’s equation.
a) True
b) False
b
Join [email protected]
6. If in a fluid, while applying Newton’s second law of motion, compressibility force is neglected then  what equation is obtained?
a) Navier Stoke’s Equation
b) Reynold’s equation of motion
c) Euler’s Equation of motion
d) Continuity Equation for fluid flow
b
7. According to statement of Bernoulli’s theorem if Kinetic or Potential Energy is changing then overall energy changes and hence energy is not constant at all the places.
a) True
b) False
b
8. In derivation for Euler’s equation, the weight of fluid element is considered as negligible and ignored in calculation.
a) True
b) False
b
9. Water is flowing through a pipe of 3.8 cm diameter under a pressure of 20 N/cm2 (gauge) and with mean velocity of 3.7 m/s. Find the total head or total energy per unit weight of the water at a cross section, which is 7 m above the datum line.
a) 56.14 m
b) 28.07 m
c) 84.18 m
d) 10.52 m
b
                                       = p/ρg + v2/ 2g + z
                                       = 20.38 + 0.69 + 7
                                       = 28.07 m. 
10. A fluid with specific gravity 0.85 is flowing through a diameter 250 mm and 150 mm at the bottom and upper ends respectively. Determine the difference in datum head if the rate of flow through pipe is 0.04 m3/s. Take pressure at top and bottom as 27 N/cm2 and 10 N/cm2.
a) 17.1 m
b) 34.2 m
c) 10.5 m
d) None of the mentioned
a
Hence, Datum head difference = 17.1 m. 
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Fluid Mechanics.
To practice all areas of Fluid Mechanics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Fluid Mechanics Questions and Answers – Impulse Momentum Equation» Next - Fluid Mechanics Questions and Answers – Bernoulli’s Equation for Real Fluids and  Applications of Bernoulli’s Equation 
