1. Which of the following statement is true about vapor pressure of a liquid?
a) Vapor pressure is closely related to molecular activity and temperature of the liquid
b) Vapor pressure is closely related to molecular activity but independent of the temperature of the liquid
c) Vapor pressure is not affected by molecular activity and temperature of the liquid
d) Vapor pressure is not affected by molecular activity and is independent of the temperature of the liquid
a
2. Which of the following equation correctly depicts the relation between the vapor pressure of a liquid and it’s temperature?
a) Vapor pressure increases linearly with the increase in temperature of the liquid
b) Vapor pressure increases slightly with the increase in temperature of the liquid at low temperatures and the rate of increase goes high at higher temperatures
c) Vapor pressure increases rapidly with the increase in temperature of the liquid at low temperatures and the rate of increase goes low at higher temperatures
d) Vapor pressure remains unchanged with the increase in temperature of the liquid
b
3. Which of the following is the condition for the boiling of a liquid?
a) Absolute pressure of a liquid must be greater than or equal to it’s vapor pressure
b) Absolute pressure of a liquid must be less than or equal to it’s vapor pressure
c) Absolute pressure of a liquid must be equal to it’s vapor pressure
d) Absolute pressure of a liquid must be greater than it’s vapor pressure
b
4. Which of the following machines have the possibility of cavitation?
a) Reaction turbines and centrifugal pumps
b) Reaction turbines and reciprocating pumps
c) Impulse turbines and centrifugal pumps
d) Impulse turbines and reciprocating pumps
a
5. The three liquids 1, 2, and 3 with vapor pressures V1, V2 and V3 respectively, are kept under same pressure. If V1 > V2 > V3, which liquid will start boiling early?
a) liquid 1
b) liquid 2
c) liquid 3
d) they will start boiling at the same time
a
6. Equal amount of a particular liquid is poured into three similar containers, namely 1, 2 and 3, at a temperature of T1, T2 and T3 respectively. If T1 < T2 < T3, the liquid in which container will have the highest vapor pressure?
a) container 1
b) container 2
c) container 3
d) the vapor pressure of the liquid will remain the same irrespective of it’s temperature
c
7. The absolute pressure of a water is 0.5kN above it’s vapor pressure. If it flows with a velocity of 1m/s, what will be the value of Cavitation Number describing the flow induced boiling?
a) 0.25
b) 0.5
c) 1
d) 2
c
8. Which of the following is correct regarding the formation and collapse of vapor bubbles in a liquid?
a) Vapor bubbles are formed when the fluid pressure goes above the vapor pressure and collapses when the fluid pressure goes above the bubble pressure
b) Vapor bubbles are formed when the fluid pressure goes above the vapor pressure and collapses when the fluid pressure goes below the bubble pressure
c) Vapor bubbles are formed when the fluid pressure drops below the vapor pressure and collapses when the fluid pressure goes below the bubble pressure
d) Vapor bubbles are formed when the fluid pressure drops below the vapor pressure and collapses when the fluid pressure goes above the bubble pressure
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Fluid Mechanics.
To practice all areas of Fluid Mechanics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Fluid Mechanics Questions and Answers – Viscosity – 2» Next - Fluid Mechanics Questions and Answers – Compressibility and Bulk Modulus 
