1. What will be the shape of the pathline for an one-dimensional flow be like?
a) straight line
b) parabolic
c) hyperbolic
d) elliptical
a
2. Which of the following is correct?
a) Pathlines of two particles in an one-dimensional flow can never intersect
b) Pathlines of two particles in an one-dimensional flow can never intersect if the two particles move along the same direction
c) Pathlines of two particles in an one-dimensional flow can intersect only if the two particles move along the same direction
d) Pathlines of two particles in an one-dimensional flow can intersect only if the two particles move along different directions
c
3. What is the maximum number of times the pathlines of two particles can intersect in an one dimensional flow?
a) 0
b) 1
c) 2
d) infinite
b
4. The velocity of a point in a flow is
a) along the streamline
b) tangent to the streamline
c) along the pathline
d) tangent to the pathline
b
5. Which of the following is correct?
a) A streamline can intersect itself and two streamlines can cross
b) A streamline cannot intersect itself but two streamlines can cross
c) A streamline can intersect itself but two streamlines cannot cross
d) A streamline cannot intersect itself and two streamlines cannot cross
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. If three sets of streamlines A, B and C are considered across section 1-2, which set will represent accelerated flow from 1 to 2?
a) A
b) B
c) C
d) None of the sets
a
7. The streamlines of the particles in a flow are recorded. If the streamline distribution remain the same even after sometime, what type of flow can it be?
a) steady
b) unsteady
c) uniform
d) non-uniform
a
8. If the streamlines of the particles in a flow are parallel to each other, what type of flow can it be?
a) steady
b) unsteady
c) uniform
d) non-uniform
c
9. Which of the following is correct?
a) the movement of fluid mass can either be along the streamlines or across them
b) the movement of fluid mass can be along the streamlines but never across them
c) the movement of fluid mass can never be along the streamlines but can be across them
d) the movement of fluid mass can neither be along the streamlines or across them
b
10. Which of the following is correct?
a) pathlines are concerned with a number of particles at the same instant and streamlines with a particular particle at successive instants of time
b) pathlines are concerned with a particular particle at successive instants of time and streamlines with a number of particles at the same instant
c) both pathlines and streamlines are concerned with a number of particles at the same instant
d) both pathlines and streamlines are concerned with a particular particle at successive instants of time
b
11. The path taken by the smoke coming out of a chimney (in concentric circles) represents a
a) pathline
b) streamline
c) streakline
d) streamtube
c
Hence, the path taken by the smoke coming out of a chimney (in concentric circles) will represent streaklines.
12. Which of the following is correct?
a) In steady flow, pathlines and streamlines are identical
b) In steady flow, pathlines and streaklines are identical
c) In steady flow, streaklines and streamlines are identical
d) In steady flow, pathline, streamlines and streaklines are all identical
d
13. Which of the following is correct?
a) There will be no flow across the streamtube
b) There will be no flow along the streamtube
c) There will be no flow both across the streamtube and along it
d) There will be flow both across the streamtube and along it
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Fluid Mechanics.
To practice all areas of Fluid Mechanics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Fluid Mechanics Questions and Answers – Types of Fluid Flow» Next - Fluid Mechanics Questions and Answers – Continuity Equation 
