1. When a uniform flow is flowing through a doublet, resultant flow obtained is
a) Flow past a Rankine oval of equal axes
b) Flow past a circular cylinder
c) All of the mentioned
d) None of the mentioned
c
2. How many stagnation points are present in a source and sink pair in a uniform flow
a) Two
b) Three
c) One
d) None
a
3. Which of the following is not a type of superimposed flow?
a) Source and sink pair in uniform flow.
b) Double flow
c) A source and sink pair in turbulent flow.
d) A plane source in uniform flow
c
4. In the equation for steam function due to source steam function is inversely proportional to magnitude at discharge
a) True
b) False
a
5. Streamlines of doublet flow are family of circles tangent to a common axis.
a) True
b) False
a
6. What is the characteristic of stagnation point
a) Velocity is zero
b) Acceleration is uniform
c) Velocity  is zero
d) Acceleration is zero
a
7. Potential lines for the source-sink pair will be eccentric non intersecting circles with their centers on the axis.
a) True
b) False
b
8. What is the term used for a case where source and sink( both of them are of equal magnitude) approach each other such, distance between them reduces and product of distance and discharge magnitude remains constant.
a) A plain pair
b) A doublet source in uniform
c) Hagen Poiseuille flow
d) Coutte flow
b
9. What type of flow is obtained by superimposing two definite flow types{( considering ideal condition)
a) Ideal
b) Potential
c) Both
d) None of the mentioned
c
10. The nature of streamlines in a flow net obtained by the combination of source and sink is-
a) Linear
b) Curvilinear
c) Circular
d) Random
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Fluid Mechanics.
To practice  all areas of Fluid Mechanics for online Quizzes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.	
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Fluid Mechanics Questions and Answers – Important  Cases of Potential Flow» Next - Fluid Mechanics Questions and Answers – Introduction to Fluid Dynamics 
