1. Which method is used exclusively in fluid mechanics?
a) Lagrangian method
b) Eulerian method
c) Both Lagrangian and Eulerian methods
d) Neither Lagrangian nor Eulerian method
b
2. A beaker contains water up to a certain height as shown. If the water is allowed to get discharged through a small pipe (of a uniform diameter), what type of flow will it be in the pipe?
a) steady and uniform
b) unsteady and uniform
c) steady and non-uniform
d) unsteady and non-uniform
b
According to the continuity equation, ρAV =constant, where ρ= density, A= cross-sectional area of flow, V = velocity of flow. Since water is treated as an incompressible liquid (ρ =constant) and the pipe has a uniform diameter (A =constant) at a given instant, V will remain constant throughout the whole cross-section of the pipe. Hence, it will be a uniform flow.
3. A beaker contains water up to a certain height as shown. If the water is allowed to get discharged through a small nozzle, what type of flow will it be in the pipe?
a) steady and uniform
b) unsteady and uniform
c) steady and non-uniform
d) unsteady and non-uniform
d
According to the continuity equation, ρAV =constant, where ρ= density, A= cross-sectional area of flow, V = velocity of flow. In this case, water is treated as an incompressible liquid (ρ = constant) but the nozzle has a gradually decreasing diameter (A decreases). At a given instant, V at the exit of the nozzle will be more than that at it’s entrance. Hence, it will be a non-uniform flow.
4. A beaker contains water up to a certain height as shown. If the water is allowed to get discharged through a small diffuser, what type of flow will it be in the pipe?
a) steady and uniform
b) unsteady and uniform
c) steady and non-uniform
d) unsteady and non-uniform
d
According to the continuity equation, ρAV =constant, where ρ= density, A= cross-sectional area of flow, V = velocity of flow. In this case, water is treated as an incompressible liquid (ρ =constant) but the nozzle has a gradually increasing diameter (A increases). At a given instant, V at the exit of the nozzle will be less than that at it’s entrance. Hence, it will be a non-uniform flow.
5. What type of flow can be taken for granted in a pipe of a uniform cross-section?
a) steady
b) unsteady
c) uniform
d) non-uniform
c
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Can the flow inside a nozzle be steady and uniform?
a) yes
b) never
c) it can be steady but never uniform
d) it can be uniform but never steady
c
7. Which of the following statements is true regarding one and two-dimensional flows?
a) Flow in a pipe is always taken as one-dimensional flow
b) Flow in a pipe is always taken as two-dimensional flow
c) Flow in a pipe is taken as one-dimensional flow when average flow parameters are considered
d) Flow in a pipe is taken as two-dimensional flow when average flow parameters are considered
c
8. Which of the following is true?
a) Flow is rotational inside the boundary layer and irrotational outside
b) Flow is irrotational inside the boundary layer and rotational outside
c) Flow is rotational both inside and outside of the boundary layer
d) Flow is irrotational both inside and outside of the boundary layer
a
9. Which of the following is true?
a) Flow is laminar inside the boundary layer and turbulent outside
b) Flow is turbulent inside the boundary layer and laminar outside
c) Flow is laminar both inside and outside of the boundary layer
d) Flow is turbulent both inside and outside of the boundary layer
a
10. “The velocity of entrance and exit through a nozzle remains the same.” Is this ever possible?
a) only if the flow is compressible
b) only if the flow is laminar
c) only if the flow is rotational
d) never possible
a
11. Three flows named as 1,2 and 3 are observed. The Reynold’s number for the three are 100, 1000 and 10000. Which of the flows will be laminar?
a) only 1
b) only 1 and 2
c) 1, 2 and 3
d) only 3
b
12. Three flows named as 1,2 and 3 are observed. The flow velocities are v1 and v2. If all other geometrical factors remain the same along with the fluid considered, flow is more likely to be laminar?
a) flow 1 if v1 > v2
b) flow 2 if v1 > v2
c) always flow 1
d) always flow 2
:
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Fluid Mechanics.
To practice all areas of Fluid Mechanics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Fluid Mechanics Questions and Answers – Conditions of Equilibrium of a Floating and Submerged Bodies» Next - Fluid Mechanics Questions and Answers – Types of Flow Lines 
