1. What is the main purpose of the canal escape?
a) To Maintain Uniform Flow in the Canal
b) To Remove Surplus Water
c) To Maintain Constant Velocity of the Flow
d) To Help for Proper Hydraulic Jump
b
2. Which of the following is a reason for surplus water present in a canal?
a) No Fall
b) No Proper Hydraulic Jump
c) No Proper Uniform Velocity of Flow
d) Cultivators closing their outlets thinking their demand is over
d
3. What is the other name for canal escape?
a) Canal Outlet
b) Escape
c) Surplus Water Escape
d) Canal Inlet
c
4. In case of breaches in the canal, the escape present in the upstream of the breach is opened.
a) False
b) True
b
5. The canal escapes are safety valves that should be provided at regular intervals.
a) False
b) True
b
6. Which type of canal escape does the figure represent?
a) Weir Type Escape
b) Regular Type Escape
c) Venturi Flume
d) Surplus Water Escape
a
7. What type of escape is preferred these days?
a) Weir Type Escape
b) Venturi Flume
c) Regular Type Escape
d) Tail Escape
c
8. What is the other name given to weir type escape?
a) Surplus Water Escape
b) Venturi Flume
c) Tail Escape
d) Scouring Escape
c
9. What is the purpose of the regulator type escape?
a) To Remove Excess Silt
b) To Maintain Uniform Flow in the Canal
c) To Perform Proper Hydraulic Jump
d) For Distribution of Discharge for the Canals
a
10. Scouring escapes have become obsolete because of?
a) Piers
b) Weir Walls
c) Falls
d) Silt Ejectors
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Irrigation Engineering.
To practice all areas of Irrigation Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Irrigation Engineering Questions and Answers – Canal Regulation» Next - Irrigation Engineering Questions and Answers – Regulation Modules – Metering Flumes Types 
