1. The quantity of water that can be diverted from the river into the main canal has no dependency on which of the following factor?
a) The water available in the river
b) The capacity of the main canal
c) Water demand of the branch canals
d) The capacity of the branch canal
d
2. In case of high demand but insufficient supplies, all the smaller channels are made to run simultaneously and continuously with reduced supplies.
a) True
b) False
b
3. Which of the following combination is wrong?
a) Roster – Indication of allotted supplies to different channels
b) Flexible regulation – Allocation of supplies with anticipated demand
c) Head regulator – Regulation of discharge in the canal
d) Chak – Command area of an inlet
d
4. Which of the following characteristics is wrong about extensive irrigation?
a) The irrigation extends to a large area with the lowest available supply
b) Agricultural production and protection against famine will be at optimum levels
c) The crop production will be minimal per unit of available water
d) It creates a perpetual scarcity of water
c
5. What are the categories of the entire water conveyance system?
a) The primary distribution system and secondary distribution system
b) The primary distribution system, the secondary distribution system, and Water allowance
c) The primary distribution system, secondary distribution system, and tertiary distribution system
d) The primary distribution system, secondary distribution system, tertiary distribution system, and Water allowance
c
6. Which of the following statement is wrong?
a) The primary and secondary distribution system is fully controlled by the State Irrigation Department
b) The tertiary system is managed by farmers
c) The distribution of water managed by farmers is done on a seven-day rotation basis
d) Water allowance is not a compromise between the likely demand and the supply for a given project
d
7. What is the correct formula for Flow Time in an hour for an individual farmer?
a) (FT for the unit area) x (area of farmer’s fields) + (his bharai – his jharai)
b) (FT for the unit area) x (area of farmer’s fields) – (his bharai – his jharai)
c) FT for the unit area + (his bharai – his jharai)
d) FT for the unit area – (his bharai – his jharai)
a
(FT for the unit area) x (area of farmer’s fields) + (his bharai – his jharai)
Bharai is generally zero in case of the tail (i.e. the last farmer) and Jharai is usually zero for all except for the tail.
8. What is the formula for the Flow Time for the unit area in hours?
a) 168 – (total Bharai – total Jharai) / Total area to be irrigated by the water-course
b) 168 + (total Bharai – total Jharai) / Total area to be irrigated by the water-course
c) 168 – (total Bharai – total Jharai)
d) 168 + (total Bharai – total Jharai)
a
The bharai time is debited from the common pool time of 168 hours and that value of bharai which is not efficient for field applications, the tail end farmer is compensated and allowed a certain recovery of the bharai time is called jharai.
Hence, the formula for Flow Time for a unit area of a land holding is given as –
FT = 168 – (total Bharai – total Jharai) / Total area to be irrigated by the water-course.
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Irrigation Engineering.
To practice all areas of Irrigation Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Irrigation Engineering Questions and Answers – Canal Irrigation System – Losses of Water in Canal» Next - Irrigation Engineering Questions and Answers – Design Capacity for an Irrigation Canal 
