1. On which factor does the pricing of irrigation water is done on a flat rate?
a) Type of Crops Sown
b) Amount of Irrigation Water Used
c) For the Whole Field Sown
d) Per Hectare
d
2. Groundnut is a cash crop but whereas wheat is a food crop.
a) True
b) False
a
3. On how many factors does the specified rates in the crop rate system of pricing depends?
a) 4
b) 3
c) 2
d) 1
c
4. Crop rate system of pricing does not help the cultivators for economizing the use of water.
a) True
b) False
a
5. What does the crop rate system may lead to?
a) Overutilization Water
b) Careful use of Water
c) Sufficient use of Water
d) Insufficient use of Water
a
6. In crop rate revenue system field assessment is done by?
a) Canal Officer
b) IAS Officer
c) Tahsildar
d) Patwari
d
7. Who has the authority to grant remissions to the cultivators?
a) IAS Officer
b) Canal Officer
c) Patwari
d) Tahsildar
b
8. In which method of pricing measuring devices are installed?
a) Direct Revenue Collection
b) Crop Rate System
c) Volumetric Method of Pricing
d) Crop Rate Revenue System
c
9. Which type of system is not in practice in India?
a) Crop Rate Revenue System
b) Direct Revenue Collection
c) Crop Rate System
d) Volumetric Method of Pricing
d
10. Which type of system can be easily used in tube well irrigation?
a) Direct Revenue Collection
b) Crop Rate Revenue System
c) Volumetric Method of Pricing
d) Crop Rate System
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Irrigation Engineering.
To practice all areas of Irrigation Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Irrigation Engineering Questions and Answers – Reclamation of Saline and Alkaline Lands» Next - Irrigation Engineering Questions and Answers – Economic Water Rates Vs Prevailing Revenue Rates in India 
