1. Depending on how many factors the government generally fixes the irrigation water revenue rates?
a) 3
b) 2
c) 1
d) 4
b
2. According to which factor the real cost of irrigation water can be worked out?
a) Maintenance Costs
b) Initial Capital
c) Economic Considerations
d) Total Area of Irrigated Land
c
3. Economic water rate means the rate worked out in rupees per unit quantity of water.
a) True
b) False
a
4. What policy was framed in India to reduce the losses?
a) Irrigation Water Policy
b) Water Law
c) Policy of Water
d) National Water Policy
d
5. Economic water rates are higher than the rates by the government bodies.
a) True
b) False
a
6. What is the main agenda of the National Water Policy?
a) Quality Check of Irrigation Water
b) Recommendations to States
c) Maintenance of the Irrigation Structures
d) Recover Charges
d
7. In the main agenda of National Water Policy what charges can be exempted for time being?
a) Recovery of Annual Operation Charges
b) Recovery of Maintenance Charges
c) Recovery of Fixed Capital
d) Irrigation Water Charges
c
8. What is the name of the committee appointed by the government on 23-10-1991?
a) Committee on Revenue Collection on Irrigation Water
b) Committee on Pricing of Irrigation Water
c) Committee on Recovery of Charges
d) Committee on Finding the Irrigation Structures
b
9. Which state has completely avoided the irrigation revenue rates?
a) Punjab
b) Maharashtra
c) Andhra Pradesh
d) Gujarat
a
10. On what factors does the economic water rate depend?
a) 4
b) 5
c) 3
d) 6
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Irrigation Engineering.
To practice all written questions on Irrigation Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Irrigation Engineering Questions and Answers – Method of Pricing Irrigation» Next - Irrigation Engineering Questions and Answers – Classification of Rivers 
