1. Which of the following artificial organ has been mechanically reproduced in a compact form?
a) Heart
b) Lungs
c) Kidney
d) Liver
a
2. What is the difference between a pacemaker and the total artificial heart (TAH)?
a) A pacemaker is smaller in size and completely embedded in the body as compared to TAH in which some system lies outside the body
b) A pacemaker replaces only the ventricles but a TAH replaces the whole heart
c) A pacemaker is an assistive device which helps the original heart to generate impulses but a TAH completely replaces the heart
d) A pacemaker is made out of organic polymers while the TAH is metallic
c
3. After extraction, how long can the heart survive outside the body before being transplanted?
a) 2 hours
b) 4 hours
c) 6 hours
d) 8 hours
b
4. A liver performs multiple functions and is also one of the heaviest organs in the body, second only to the brain. So, when an artificial liver is being produced, recreating what physical property of the liver poses a challenge?
a) mass of the cells
b) volume of the cells
c) density of the cells
d) size of the cells
c
5. In a heart, what is most commonly replaced?
a) Artery and/or Vein
b) Auricles
c) Valves
d) Ventricles
c
6. Jarvik 7 and AbioCor are names of _________
a) Artificial Brains
b) Artificial Hearts
c) Artificial Liver
d) Artificial Kidney
b
AbioCor was the second type of artificial heart to be developed. In this, the atrium is functioning well but the ventricles have been removed. AbioCor pumps the blood from one ventricle at a time so the body and lungs get blood alternatively. To make up for this, AbioCor has the capacity to pump 10 liters of blood in a minute. 
7. Which of the following heart valves are mechanical valves?
i. Ball Valve
ii. Autograft Valve
iii. Xenograft Valve
iv. Single Leaflet Valve
v. Homograft Valve
vi. Bi leaflet Valves
a) i, ii, iv, v
b) i, iv, vi
c) ii, iii, v
d) iii, v, vi
b
8. In order to maintain the levels of sugar in the blood, what devices are commonly being used?
a) Glucometer
b) Insulin Pump
c) Gluco Strips
d) Potable Pulse Oximeter
b
9. In which of the following problems does the body develop a resistance to insulin?
a) Type 1 Diabetes
b) Type 2 Diabetes
c) Insulin Shock
d) High Blood Pressure
b
10. Transplant of which organ may also cause a liver transplant in future?
a) Lungs
b) Heart
c) Kidney
d) Bladder
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Clinical Science.
To practice all areas of Clinical Science, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Clinical Science Questions and Answers – Dialysis» Next - Clinical Science Questions and Answers – Artificial Organs – 2 
