1. The process of destroying cancer cells with the help of radiation is ________
a) radiotherapy
b) physiotherapy
c) uroplasty
d) rehabilitation
a
2. Which of the following pair of scattering is important for therapeutic purposes?
a) Coherent and Pair Production
b) Photoelectric and Disintegration
c) Compton and Photoelectric
d) Pair Production and Disintegration
d
3. Which of the following pair of scattering is important for diagnostic purposes?
a) Coherent and Compton
b) Photoelectric and Pair Production
c) Compton and Photoelectric
d) Pair Production and Disintegration
c
4. Which of the following cells have a low resistance to radiations?
a) Lymphocytes, Spermatogonia, Erythroblasts, Intestinal crypt cells
b) Megakaryocytes, embryo, pancreatic cells, Intestinal crypt cells
c) Lymphocytes, Spermatogonia, hepatic cells, nephrons
d) Megakaryocytes, neurons, cardiac cells, Intestinal crypt cells
a
5. Between the oesophagus and lungs, lungs are more sensitive to radiations.
a) True
b) False
b
6. In the cardiovascular system, which is more affected by the radiations?
a) Capillaries
b) Artery
c) Vein
d) Cardiac Muscles
a
7. Why are the fast dividing cells more easily targeted?
a) Due to the high protein and carbohydrate content of the cells
b) Due to the higher energy of the cells
c) Due to the low energy of the cells
d) Due to the high oxygen content of the cells
b
8. The machine used for radiotherapy is called as _________
a) Therapeutic X-Ray machine
b) Linear Accelerator
c) Diathermy Machine
d) Radioactive Ultrasound Machine
b
9. When radiation therapy is done to reduce the effect of cancer, it is called as ______
a) Mutative Treatment
b) Reduction Treatment
c) Palliative Treatment
d) Genesis Treatment
c
10. What radiations occur when the electrons are used in radio therapy?
a) Ionizing Radiations
b) Gamma Rays
c) Bremsstrahlung Radiation
d) Infrared Rays
c
11. What is the oxygen effect?
a) Detrimental effect of oxygen in presence of therapeutic radiations
b) A positive effect of oxygen in absence of therapeutic radiations
c) Enhancement effect of oxygen in presence of therapeutic radiation
d) Presence of oxygen during radiation treatment
c
12. There are two cells, one with OER as 2.5 and other as 7. Which cell is more sensitive to radiation?
a) The cell with OER 2.5
b) The Cell with OER 7
c) Both the cells
d) Insufficient data
a
13. What role does oxygen play?
a) It causes a damage to the DNA
b) It oxygenates the cells that have undergone necrosis
c) It regulates the work of free radicals
d) It reduces the tumour size
c
14. Since there is a tumour, we can ensure that there will be oxygen present.
a) True
b) False
a
15. Batch of cells labeled as A: In the hypoxic condition, the amount of dosage required is 3 Gy but in oxygenic condition, the amount of dosage needed is 2.
  Batch of cells labeled as B: In hypoxic condition, the amount of dosage required is 30 Gy but in oxygenic conditions, the amount of dosage needed is 10.
From the above information, what conclusions can be drawn?
a) Batch A is not cancerous
b) Batch B has a higher OER
c) Batch A has a higher OER
d) Batch B is cancerous
b
          OER for B = 30/10 = 3
We know that higher the OER, the cells are more resistant to radiation i.e. they are non cancerous but lower the OER, the cells are cancerous. In the same way, if we look at the amount of radiation given to destroy the cells, the amount needed for Batch B is much higher. We know that non cancerous cells are resistant to radiations so even with this we can say that Batch B is non cancerous. Thus, we can conclude that batch A is cancerous but batch B is not.  
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Clinical Science.
To practice  all areas of Clinical Science, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Clinical Science Questions and Answers – FMRI» Next - Clinical Science Questions and Answers – Diathermy, Measurement of Radiation, Dose and its Calculations 
