1. In a normal adult male, what is the ration of RBCs: WBCs: Platelets per ml of blood?
a) 5000:11:300
b) 50:11:300
c) 5000:11:3
d) 50:11:3
a
2. Where are the platelets produced?
a) In Liver
b) In Spleen
c) In Gall Bladder
d) In Megakaryocytes
d
3. What is the ratio of basophils to eosinophils?
a) 4:1
b) 1:4
c) 2:1
d) 1:2
b
4. How to distinguish eosinophils from basophils?
a) Eosinophils have a bilobed nucleus and basophils have a single round nucleus
b) Eosinophils are granulated while Basophils are non granulated
c) Eosinophils have a single nucleus and basophils have a trilobed nucleus
d) Eosinophils stain blue while basophils stain pink
a
5. Where are Kupffer cells found?
a) Brain
b) Lungs
c) Liver
d) Spleen
c
6. The leaving of neutrophils from the blood vessels to act on the site of injury is called as ________
a) Histosis
b) Diapedesis
c) Amboidal Movement
d) Flagellation
b
7. How are mature and non – matured RBCs distinguished?
a) Mature RBCs are biconcave while non – mature RBCs are round
b) Mature RBCs have mitochondria while non – mature RBCs do not have mitochondria
c) Mature RBCs have nucleus while non – mature RBCs do not have nucleus
d) Mature RBCs have haemoglobin while non – mature RBCs do not have haemoglobin
a
8. Where are the RBCs destroyed?
a) Liver
b) Pancreas
c) Stomach
d) Intestines
a
9. What is the lifespan of platelets?
a) 1 – 7 days
b) 8 – 12 days
c) 14 days
d) 1 month
b
10. The non – cellular components of blood consist of
i) Fibrin  ii) Thrombin  iii) Sodium  iv) Plasma  v) Thrombocytes  vi) Phagocytes vii) creatinine  viii) Water  ix) hormones  x) enzymes
a) i, iii, x
b) i, ii, iii, iv, vii, viii, ix
c) ii, iii, vii, ix
d) viii, ix, x
b
 Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Clinical Science.
To practice all areas of Clinical Science, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Clinical Science Questions and Answers – Collection of Blood in Pathology» Next - Clinical Science Questions and Answers – Classification of Joints 
