1. Rehabilitative devices are used for cases involving :
i. Trauma  ii. Palsy  iii. Geriatric Population  iv. Cancer Patients v. Sports injury vi. Fever  vii. Illiterate people  viii. Post Surgery  ix. Amputation  x. Cardiac Arrest
a) i, ii, iii, v, viii, ix
b) i, ii, ix, x
c) iii, vi, vii, ix
d) i, v, vi, vii
a
2. After a simple fracture, what is the recommended period of bed rest?
a) 1 week
b) 2 weeks
c) 1 month
d) 2 months
b
3. Cerebral Palsy can be detected by which gait pattern?
a) Waddling gait
b) Stomping gait
c) Scissoring Gait
d) Swayback Gait
c
4. Why should wheelchairs be avoided by young population?
a) It damages the neural system of the body
b) It causes inflammation in the GI track
c) It causes low blood pressure
d) It damages the bones and skeletal muscles
d
5. Match the following devices with the kind of devices:
Device
 Type of Device
Prosthetic Leg (PL)
Assisitive Device (AD)
Calipers (C)
Rehabilitative Device (RD)
Knee Brace (KB)
Substitutive Device (SD)
a) PL – SD, C – RD, KB – AD
b) PL – AD, C – SD, KB – RD
c) PL – SD, C – AD, KB – RD
d) PL – AD, C – RD, KB – SD
c
6. What kind of assistive device does a person hard of hearing use?
a) cochlear implant
b) hearing aid
c) device giving electrical impulses to the ear
d) surgical methods
b
7. Can glasses be taken as assistive devices?
a) True
b) False
a
8. To help a child with scissoring gait, what should not be done?
a) releasing a tendon surgically
b) tying two pillows on the inner side of the leg and having the child walk
c) surgical amputation of legs
d) making the child walk with a mild obstruction between the two legs
c
9. What can be done for a person suffering from a foot drop palsy?
a) wear the brace in the form of socks or stiff shoes
b) surgical amputation
c) releasing a tendon
d) use calipers
a
10. Which of the following happens in hemiplegic gait?
a) circumduction of the legs
b) swayback posture
c) stomping of the foot
d) swinging of the arms
a
11. In cases of neuromuscular injury, which method is used to rehabilitate them?
a) Transcutaneus Electrical Nerve Stimulation
b) Heat Therapy
c) Acupuncture
d) Massage
a
12. In Bells Palsy, the face muscles get paralyzed. To protect the eye from harm, what all can be done?
i) Use eye patch  ii) Stay in a dark Room  iii) Use eye drops  iv) Rub the eyes  v) Massage the eye area  vi) Eat Vitamin A
a) i, ii, iii, iv, v, vi
b) i, iii, v
c) ii, iii, vi
d) iii, v, vi
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Clinical Science.
To practice all areas of Clinical Science, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Clinical Science Questions and Answers – Diathermy, Measurement of Radiation, Dose and its Calculations» Next - Clinical Science Questions and Answers – Dialysis 
