1. What is the purpose of CSSD?
a) storage of clean equipment
b) providing sterile equipment to the operation theater
c) storing sterile equipment
d) pharmacy of the operation theater
b
2. Which machine uses the temperature and pressure of the steam for disinfection?
a) Laminar Airflow
b) Autoclave
c) Oven
d) Water Jet
b
3. Which of the following cannot be autoclaved?
a) catheter
b) mes
c) scalpel
d) scissors
a
4. Which of the following chemicals are used to treat the instruments made out of polymers?
i) Ethylene Oxide  ii) Hydrochloric Acid  iii) Silver Cyanide  iv) Ozone v) Bleach  vi) Saline Solution       vii) Sulphuric Acid  viii) Glutaraldehyde and Formaldehyde  ix) Phthalaldehyde  x) Hydrogen Peroxide xi) Nitric Acid  xii) Peracetic Acid  xiii) Silver  xiv) Formic Acid  xv) Citric Acid
a) i, ii, iii, iv, v, vi
b) ii, iv, vi, viii, x, xii
c) i, iv, v, viii, ix, x, xii, xiii
d) iii, iv, ix, xii, xv
c
5.  How are the gauze and cotton sterilized?
a) Hot air sterilization
b) Wet Heat Sterilization
c) Sterilization Under High Pressure
d) Chemical Sterilization
a
6. What machine is used to package the cotton and gauze?
a) Heat Sealing Machine
b) UV sealing Machine
c) Zip Lock Machine
d) Needle and Thread Sealing
a
7.  What is sterilized in dry conditions?
a) Implant
b) Gauze
c) Scalpel
d) Cannula
b
8. How is dry sterilization done?
a) In autoclave
b) In oven
c) In Magnetic Vibrator
d) In Hot Plate
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Clinical Science.
To practice all areas of Clinical Science, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Clinical Science Questions and Answers – Organization of Theaters» Next - Clinical Science Questions and Answers – Anatomy and Physiology of G.I.T – 1 
