1. Gas absorption is the process of transferring solute component from liquid solvent to gas mixture.
a) True
b) False
b
2. The equilibrium characteristics of the solubility of a gas in liquid helps to determine the
a) Rate
b) Concentration
c) Time
d) No existence of equilibrium characteristics
a
3. Solubility of a gas increases with increase in temperature.
a) True
b) False
b
4. Which of the following is not an example of ideal solution?
a) Solution of benzene in toluene
b) Solution of ethyl and propyl alcohol
c) Paraffin hydrocarbon gas in paraffin oil
d) Solution of isobutane and olefins
d
5. According to Raoult’s law, for a pure component solution the partial pressure is equals to
a) Total pressure
b) Vapour pressure
c) Atmospheric pressure
d) Mole fraction of respective phase
b
Therefore, the partial pressure equals vapour pressure.
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6.  According to Hendry’s law,
a) Y=(p/P)
b) Y=(p* P)
c) p=(Y/P)
d) p=(Y*P)
a
Where, Y=equilibrium mole fraction in vapour
               pA= partial pressure
               P= Total pressure.
7. Match the following
1) Hendry’s law – a)Ideal solution
2) Dalton’s law  – b)Non- Ideal solution
3) Raoult’s law  -c)Sum of partial pressure
a) 1- (b), 2-(c),3-(a)
b) 1-(a),2-(b),3-(c)
c) 1-(c),2-(b),3-(a)
d) 1-(a),2-(c),3-(b)
a
8. Find the false statement for the better choice of the absorbent.
a) Gas solubility should be high
b) Vapour pressure should be low
c) Viscosity should be high
d) Low freezing point
b
9. Find the most common example for absorption.
a) Ammonia and air in solvent water
b) Ammonia and Carbon dioxide in solvent water
c) Methane and air in solvent water
d) Methane and Carbon dioxide in solvent water
a
10. Find the improper characteristic of ideal solution.
a) The average intermolecular force of attraction and repulsion are unchanged on mixing
b) Volume varies linearly with compositions
c) No evolution of heat
d) The total partial pressure varies linearly with compositions
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Mass Transfer.
To practice all areas of Mass Transfer, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Mass Transfer Questions and Answers – Operating Line Concept for Absorption» Next - Mass Transfer Questions and Answers – Design of Absorption Tower  (NTU,HTU,HETP Concepts) 
