1. The Concentration of the two phases in a closed system at the Interphase is
a) Changes continuously
b) Never changes
c) Becomes zero
d) Increases till the driving force becomes zero
b
2. Diffusion of components between the phases at equilibrium is
a) Zero
b) Infinity
c) Changes continuously
d) Diffusion never occurs
a
3. Consider a steady-state condition; the concentration at any point in the equipment never changes with time.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Find the x & y co-ordinate in the figure below at steady state. Here, the gas phase and liquid phase mole fraction representation is given below
a) x- distance & y- concentration
b) x-time & y- concentration
c) x-concentration & y- time
d) x-concentration & y-distance
a
5. The real driving force of the mass transfer is
a) Chemical potential
b) Physical potential
c) Pressure gradient
d) Concentration gradient
a
6. According to Lewis and Whitman theory, the departure from concentration equilibrium at the Interphase is due to
a) Low mass transfer rates
b) High mass transfer rates
c) Moderate mass transfer rate
d) None of the mentioned
b
7. At the Interphase, the Interphase concentration of the component in both phase phases have equal chemical potential is due to differential concentration.
a) True
b) False
b
8. The equilibrium concentrations in the gas and the liquid phases, in mole fraction, give rise to a curve known as
a) Equilibrium distribution curve
b) Equilibrium concentration curve
c) Differential distribution curve
d) Differential concentration curve
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Mass Transfer.
To practice all areas of Mass Transfer, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Mass Transfer Questions and Answers – Melting Point» Next - Mass Transfer Questions and Answers – Material Balance Concepts-Cocurrent 
