1. What does the central limit theorem state?
a) if the sample size increases sampling distribution must approach normal distribution
b) if the sample size decreases then the sample distribution must approach normal distribution
c) if the sample size increases then the sampling distribution much approach an exponential distribution
d) if the sample size decreases then the sampling distribution much approach an exponential distribution
a
2. Standard error is always non- negative.
a) True
b) False
a
3. Sampling error increases as we increase the sampling size.
a) True
b) False
b
4. The difference between the sample value expected and the estimates value of the parameter is called as?
a) bias
b) error
c) contradiction
d) difference
a
5. In which of the following types of sampling the information is carried out under the opinion of an expert?
a) quota sampling
b) convenience sampling
c) purposive sampling
d) judgement sampling
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Which of the following is a subset of population?
a) distribution
b) sample
c) data
d) set
b
7. The sampling error is defined as?
a) difference between population and parameter
b) difference between sample and parameter
c) difference between population and sample
d) difference between parameter and sample
c
8. Any population which we want to study is referred as?
a) standard population
b) final population
c) infinite population
d) target population
d
9. Suppose we want to make a voters list for the general elections 2019 then we require __________
a) sampling error
b) random error
c) census
d) simple error
c
10. Selection of a football team for FIFA World Cup is called as?
a) random sampling
b) systematic sampling
c) purposive sampling
d) cluster sampling
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Probability and Statistics.
To practice all areas of Probability and Statistics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Probability and Statistics Questions and Answers – Weibull Distribution» Next - Probability and Statistics Questions and Answers – Sampling Distribution – 2 
