1. EWMA and cusum charts can be used for the short production runs because ____________
a) They are good in phase II
b) They have shorter ARL
c) They don’t detect process shift
d) They detect larger process shift
b
2. Which of these is suitable for the short run environment?
a) x bar chart
b) R chart
c) p-chart
d) Self starting cusum chart
d
3. Which of these is not one of the areas for which, the self starting cusum approach uses regular process measurements for?
a) For establishing the cusum
b) For calibrating the cusum
c) For acceptance sampling
d) For process monitoring
c
4. Which of these is eliminated by the self starting approach?
a) Phase I parameter estimation phase
b) Phase I parameter measurement phase
c) Phase II parameter estimation phase
d) Phase II parameter measurement phase
a
5. The false alarm rate is _______ when small number of subgroups is used for the Shewhart control charts.
a) Decreased
b) Increased
c) Remains same
d) Changed randomly
b
6. Who was the first person to study the effect of the number of subgroups used for x bar and R chart control limit calculation on the false alarm rate?
a) Hillier
b) Robertson
c) Wang
d) Ricardo
a
7. Which of these charts can be used instead of Shewhart control charts, in the case of small number of subgroups used to construct the charts, which were recommended by Quesenberry?
a) R-charts
b) C-charts
c) P-charts
d) Q-charts
d
8. Which method was suggested by Del Castillo and Montgomery, to be used instead of the Q-chart to get better ARL performance?
a) Kalman Filter
b) Acceptance Sampling
c) Design of experiments
d) Deleting some samples completely
a
9. Which of these is not a purpose for which control charts are produced for?
a) Control of the process
b) Reduction of variability
c) Increment of variability
d) Continuous process improvement
c
10. Which of these is used when the process has achieved high capability level?
a) Trial control limits
b) Actual control limits
c) Modified control limits
d) Easy control limits
c
11. Which of these is not a name of Modified control limits for x̅ charts?
a) Acceptance limits
b) Reject limits
c) Reserve limits
d) Liquid limits
b
12. Which of these is a method used when the process capability is quite high?
a) Acceptance sampling
b) Design of experiments
c) Acceptance control charts
d) Shewhart control charts
c
13. Which of these does not say that the modified control limits must be applied?
a) Cpk≫1
b) Process spread is considerably small
c) Natural variability becomes high
d) Process capability becomes quite good
c
14. The six-sigma approach when implemented for a long time, the process may need modified control charts.
a) True
b) False
a
15. If the Cpk=0.9899, the usage of modified control charts is very necessary.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Statistical Quality Control.
To practice tough questions and answers on all areas of Statistical Quality Control, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Statistical Quality Control Questions and Answers – Control Charting Techniques – Statistical Process Control for Short Production Runs – 3» Next - Statistical Quality Control Questions and Answers – Control Charting Techniques – Statistical Process Control for Short Production Runs – 5 
