1. What among these takes a project mission statement as its input?
a) Generic Software Product Design
b) Generic Software Engineering Design
c) Generic Software Product & Engineering Design
d) None of the mentioned
a
2. The design process where project mission statement is the input what will be its output?
a) Final design document
b) SRS
c) Product plan
d) Design document
b
3. Which of these are known as Project mission statement?
a) Business case document
b) Project charter
c) Project brief
d) All of the mentioned
d
4. What is the project mission statement?
a) It is a document that defines development project’s goal
b) It is a document that specifies project’s limits
c) It is a document that defines development project’s goal & specifies project’s limits
d) It is a document which specifies project mission
c
5. The important roles followed by the project mission statement?
a) Launching a development project
b) Stating the software design problem
c) Both Launching a development project & Stating the software design problem
d) None of the mentioned
c
6. Which of these is not a part of the project mission template?
a) Introduction
b) Product vision and project scope
c) Business requirements
d) Functional requirements
d
7. Which of the following statement is correct?
a) Assumption is any factor that limits developers
b) Constraint is something that developers take it as granted
c) Constraint  is a restriction on the solution
d) Assumption is drawback of the problem
c
Constraint is any factor that limits developers,
Assumptions are feature of problem.
8. Which of these steps is not in sequence with project mission statement?
i. Introduction
ii. Target Markets
iii. Product vision and scope
iv. Business requirements
a) i and ii
b) ii and iii
c) ii and iv
d) iii and iv
b
9. Which of these are true for product vision and project scope?
a) Product vision is general description of product’s purpose and form
b) Project vision is work to be done in a project
c) Project scope is general description of product’s purpose and form
d) None of the mentioned
a
10. Which among these is not a stakeholder?
a) Manager
b) Marketing person
c) User
d) Audience not a part of software who does not follow or has any concerns about software
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Software Architecture and Design.
To practice all areas of Software Design and Architecture, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Software Design and Architecture.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Software Design Question and Answers – Product Planning» Next - Software Design Question and Answers – Software Requirement Specification 
