1. Which of the following fall under constructive design principles?
a) Modularity principles
b) Implementary principles
c) Aesthetic principles
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. What is the Aesthetic principle among the following?
a) High quality programs can be constructed from self contained,  understandable parts or modules
b) A design will be more or less easy to be build
c) Beauty is one of the important factor to be acknowledged as design principle
d) None of the mentioned
c
3. Which of these distinctions of modular programs over non modular are true?
a) They are not that easier to understand and explain
b) They are not easier to document
c) They are easier to change
d) Testing and Debugging is complex comparatively
c
4. Which of these comes under the Modularity principle?
a) Small modules
b) Coupling
c) Cohesion
d) All of the mentioned
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
5. What does Coupling mean?
a) Coupling is the degree of connection between pair of module
b) Coupling is the degree to which a module’s part are related to one another
c) All of the mentioned
d) None of the mentioned
a
6. Which of the following is true?
a) Module coupling should be maximized
b) Module cohesion should be minimized
c) Modules should not have access to unneeded resources
d) Design with small modules are not better
c
7. Which of the following information should be kept hidden?
a) Internal data representation such as data types and structures
b) Volatile design decisions such as size, capacities, waiting time etc
c) Names, parameters, return types of operations provided by module
d) Internal data representation and volatile design decisions should be kept hidden
d
8. Which of the following violates principle of least privilege?
a) Modules that import packages
b) Modules with unneeded access to files
c) Classes with reference to Objects
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. Which of these is correct with context to coupling?
a) Failure to hide information leads to loose coupling and cannot be avoided
b) Modules that communicate using special data types and structures are less tightly coupled than modules with simple values
c) When modules communicate only through public module interface,  their coupling strength is proportional to the number of messages and number of data passed in between
d) All of the mentioned
c
10. Which of these is correct with the context of cohesion?
a) Cohesion is least in modules that have a single clear,  logically independent responsibility or role
b) Cohesion can not be achieved by forming modules that implement data types
c) One way to increase cohesion is to build a module hierarchy reflecting the level of abstraction in a program
d) All of the mentioned
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Software Architecture and Design.
To practice all areas of Software Design and Architecture,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Software Design and Architecture.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Software Design Questions and Answers – Engineering Design Principles» Next - Software Design Questions and Answers – Architectural Design 
