1. What does conceptual modelling represent?
a) Responsibility
b) Attributes
c) Important relationships between them
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. What are the sequence of steps for conceptual process?
a) Add Classes
b) Add Attributes
c) Add Association
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. Candidate classes should include which of the following?
a) Physical entities, individuals
b) Things managed, tracked, recorded in the real world
c) Associations
d) Physical entities, individuals, Things managed, tracked, recorded in the real world
d
4. Which of the following statements is false?
a) Add use cases to the list at any point of time
b) Reviews can be done on noun phrases designating characteristics of other entities
c) Use case represent interactions which are result of collaborative activity
d) All of the mentioned
a
5. Which of these should follow a review to the list?
a) Noun or Noun phrases designating characteristics of other entities in the list
b) Noun phrases referring to the activities or behaviors
c) Entities that are same with different names
d) All of the mentioned
d
6. Which of the following guidelines helps with adding attributes?
a) Adjectives and modifiers sometimes give clues about class attributes
b) Attribute names should not be taken from problem domain
c) Attribute should be added for object identification
d) All of the mentioned
a
7. What is the third step in sequence for conceptual class modelling?
a) Adding Class
b) Adding Association
c) Adding Attribute
d) None of the mentioned
b
8. Which of these important verb phrases should be modeled?
a) Below,  under
b) Reports to,  Consults
c) Completes,  Disposes of
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. The associations resulting from modelling verb phrases should be reviewed in which of these ways?
a) Any no of associations can be included
b) Do not combine association lines
c) Do not break any association involving three or more binary associations
d) None of the mentioned
d
10. Which of the following statement is true?
a) Adding Multiplicities is the last step in conceptual modelling
b) Adding Multiplicities is the easiest step
c) All of the mentioned
d) None of the mentioned
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Software Architecture and Design.
To practice all areas of Software Design and Architecture,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Software Design and Architecture.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Software Design Questions and Answers – UML Class and Object Diagrams» Next - Software Design Questions and Answers – Engineering Design Resolution Activities 
