1. What are the characteristics does a good SAD consist of?
a) Consistency, Feasibility, Adequacy
b) Completeness, Well-formedness
c) Reliability,  Usability
d) Consistency, Feasibility, Adequacy, Completeness, Well-formedness
d
2. Which of these has to be followed for a design to be feasible?
a) The software architects must investigate their design thoroughly to ensure that it can be implemented
b) The software architecture must specifies a program that,  when built,  can meet its requirements subject to constraints
c) The software architecture notations should be used properly
d) All of the mentioned
a
3. Which of these has to be followed for a design to be consistent?
a) The software architecture must specifies a program that,  when built,  can meet its requirements subject to constraints
b) The software architecture notations should be used properly
c) A single program that can satisfy them all
d) All of the mentioned
c
4. What is a Review?
a) It is an examination of a work product by qualified individuals
b) It is an evaluation of a work process by qualified teams
c) All of the mentioned
d) None of the mentioned
c
5. Which of these are subcategories for a review?
a) Desk Check
b) Walk Through
c) Audit
d) All of the mentioned
d
6. What is an Active review?
a) It is a review conducted by experts who are not members of the design team
b) It is an informal presentation to a team of reviewers
c) It is an examination by experts who answer questions about specific aspects of the design
d) It is an assessment of a design by the designer
c
7. Which of the options are true for an Active review?
a) Active design reviews were developed to remedy problems with traditional reviews
b) The review preparation phase begins with the activity Identify Review Goals, during which the designers choose a specific aspect of the software architecture that they would like to have reviewed
c) Active review is an examination by experts who answer questions about specific aspects of the design
d) All of the mentioned
d
8. What are the different stages included in Active design review?
a) Identify review goals
b) Choose Reviewers
c) Study Reviews
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. What are the different activities for an active review process?
a) Review Preparation
b) Review Performance
c) Review Completion
d) All of the mentioned
d
10. Which of the following are true with reference to active review?
a) The review performance phase begins when the designers and reviewers Hold an Overview Meeting
b) The designers Study Reviews during the review completion phase
c) Reviews can and should be used during the entire architectural design process to help catch defects as soon as possible
d) All of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Software Architecture and Design.
To practice all areas of Software Design and Architecture,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Software Design and Architecture.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Software Design Questions and Answers – Evaluating and Selecting Software Architectures» Next - Software Design Questions and Answers – Advanced UML Class Diagrams 
