1. What considerations should be accounted for while evaluating requirements?
a) The degree to which the alternative meets stakeholder needs
b) The priority of the needs met
c) The quality of the alternative with respect to basic principles of product design
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. Stakeholders can be involved in evaluating design alternatives in what ways?
a) Stakeholder surveys
b) Usability Studies
c) None of the mentioned
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. Which of these does not belong to the basic principles of good product design?
a) Adequacy
b) Feasibility
c) Portability
d) Economy
c
4. Which is incorrect among the following choices?
a) Adequacy – Design that meets more stakeholder needs, subject to constraints, are better
b) Feasibility – Simpler designs are better
c) Beauty – Beautiful designs are better
d) None of the mentioned
b
5. Selection of candidate requirements can be made by which parties?
a) Stakeholders
b) Designers
c) Testers
d) Stakeholders & Designers
d
6. Techniques for selecting alternative requirements?
a) Stakeholder participation
b) Crucial expectation
c) Multidimensional ranking
d) Pros and Cons
a
7. Which of these are included in the multidimensional ranking?
a) It includes scoring matrix
b) It provides objective base for making the selection
c) Alternative receives weighted scores for each selection criterion
d) All of the mentioned
d
8. What is false about pros and cons technique?
a) Selectors list each alternatives advantages and disadvantages
b) Technique is slow and not easy to use
c) Selection is made by consensus or vote
d) The results depends more on the persuasiveness of individual team member than on the objective quality of alternative designs
b
9. What is the scoring matrix?
a) Scoring matrix are included in pros and cons
b) Scoring matrix evaluates based on numerical data
c) Scoring matrix is a table showing alternative requirements in columns and weighted selection criteria in the rows
d) All of the mentioned
c
10. Which of the following statement is not true?
a) Once alternative requirements have been selected for inclusion in the design solution, they can be prioritized in case some must later be thrown out or deferred
b) Multidimensional ranking can be done using scoring matrices
c) Either of Stakeholders or designers can select alternative requirements
d) All of the mentioned
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Software Architecture and Design.
To practice all areas of Software Design for Entrance exams, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Software Design and Architecture.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Software Design Questions and Answers – Generating Alternative Requirements» Next - Software Design Questions and Answers – Finalizing Product Design 
