1. Why there is a need for Software management?
a) Software development is complex and expensive
b) It is done with few people with fixed skills and abilities
c) It is not time consuming
d) None of the mentioned
a
2. Which of these is wrong in terms of definition?
a) Planing is formulating scheme for doing project
b) Organizing is directing people doing project work
c) Project is one time effort to achieve a particular goal for organization
d) Staffing is filing the positions in an organizational structure
b
3. Which of these is not project development activity?
a) Planning
b) Organizing
c) Operating
d) Tracking
c
4. Which of these comes under business activities?
a) Project
b) Operations
c) Planning
d) Project & Operations
d
5. Which of these terms have its role in project planning?
a) Schedule
b) Milestone
c) Estimation
d) All of the mentioned
d
6. What fails a project?
a) Lack of anticipation of resources to accomplish tasks
b) Problems faced by rules governing project
c) All of the mentioned
d) None of the mentioned
c
7. What makes tracking activity more essential?
a) No need to follow rules
b) It schedules, estimates and follows resource allocation
c) All of the mentioned
d) None of the mentioned
b
8. What are decompositions for design project?
a) Analysis : Design Problem
b) Resolution : Product specifications
c) Resolution : Detailed design
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. Risk Analysis is an orderly process for __________
a) Identification of Risks
b) Understanding Risks
c) Assessing Risks
d) All of the mentioned
d
10. Why is Design a Driving Activity?
a) Design work extends from start of development to coding
b) The two major products of designs are SRS and design document
c) Design extends to project management
d) All of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Software Architecture and Design.
To practice all areas of Software Design and Architecture, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Software Design and Architecture.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Software Design Question and Answers – Software Design Process» Next - Software Design Question and Answers – Product Planning 
