1. Which among the following are not the valid notations for package and component diagram?
a) Notes
b) Box
c) Extension Mechanisms
d) Packages
b
2. Which of the following statement is false?
a) A note is a dog-eared box connected to any model element by a dashed line
b) The main way to extend UML is by constraints, properties, etc
c) A dependency relation holds between two entities D and I where change in I does not affect D
d) All of the mentioned
c
3. Which of these depicts the true definition for the UML extensions?
a) A constraint is a statement that must be true of the entities designated by one or more model elements
b) A property is a characteristic of the entity designated by a model element
c) A stereotype is a UML model element given more specific meaning
d) All of the mentioned
d
4. Which of the following is incorrect in reference to dependency?
a) Module D uses module I when a correct version of I must be present for D to work correctly
b) Module D depends for compilation on module I
c) Class I imports elements from package D
d) None of the mentioned
c
5. What is a collection of model elements called?
a) Box
b) Dependency
c) UML packages
d) Package members
d
6. A package diagram consists of the following?
a) Package symbols
b) Groupings of Use cases, classes,  components
c) Interface
d) Package symbols, Groupings of Use cases, classes & components
d
7. What types of units does Component follow?
a) Modular Unit
b) Replaceable Unit
c) Unit with well defined interface
d) All of the mentioned
d
8. Components can be represented by which of the following?
a) Component symbols
b) Stereotypes
c) Rectangular boxes
d) Component symbols & Stereotypes
d
9. What does a component diagram consists of?
a) Components,  their Relationship to the environment
b) Packages and dependency
c) Internal structure
d) Internal structure, Components & their Relationship to the environment
d
10. Which of these is true with respect to interfaces?
a) Interfaces in component diagram defines relationship between components and environment
b) Interfaces realized by a class or a component are required interfaces
c) Interface on which a class or component depends are called provided interfaces
d) All of the mentioned
a
11. What is a delegation connector?
a) A delegation connector ties a component interface to one or more internal classes or components
b) Delegation connectors are solid arrows stereotyped <>
c) A delegation connector may also extend from an internal class to an external interface
d) All of the mentioned
d
12. Which of these are diagrammatic heuristics?
a) Use notes, constraints, properties and stereotypes to add information to UML models
b) Use Stereotypes to name dependencies
c) Use packages to group elements in static models
d) All of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Software Architecture and Design.
To practice all areas of Software Design and Architecture,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Software Design and Architecture.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Software Design Questions and Answers – Specifying Software Architectures» Next - Software Design Questions and Answers – UML Deployment Diagrams 
