1. Product development is a central business activity because?
a) It is expensive and complicated
b) It determines organization’s future
c) It is risky
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. Which of the following statement is false?
a) A product plan is a list of approved development projects, with strat and delivery dates
b) Marketing is a process of conceiving products and planning and executing their promotion, distribution, and exchange with customers
c) An opportunity funnel is a mechanism for collecting product ideas from specific source
d) None of the mentioned
c
3. Which of these is not a part of product planning?
a) Identification of opportunities
b) Evaluation and prioritizing opportunities
c) Allocation of resources and time determination
d) Finalizing process
d
4. How does marketers study customers and products for the generation of ideas?
a) Surveys
b) Focus Groups
c) Interviews
d) All of the mentioned
d
5. Which of these does not account for Passive channels fo opportunity funnels?
a) Suggestion Lines
b) Bug-report Web pages
c) Monitoring trends
d) Awards for outstanding product ideas
c
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Which is not correct for an active channel?
a) Studying User to detect problems
b) Awards
c) Eliciting ideas through surveys, focus groups
d) Evaluating product strengths, needed features etc
b
7. Which of these is false about the opportunity statement?
a) Opportunity statement collects product ideas into opportunity funnel
b) Opportunity statement is brief description of product development idea
c) Opportunity statements for derivative and maintenance products summarize mass changes
d) None of the mentioned
a
8. Decisions through which an organization follows development?
a) Competitive strategy
b) Accountability
c) All of the mentioned
d) None of the mentioned
a
9. What are the factors Profitability depends on?
a) Eventual cost of product for development and marketing
b) Release of competitive product
c) Concern for target markets
d) All of the mentioned
d
10. Which of these are incorrect for the product plan?
a) No need to revise product plan frequently
b) Product plan guides the launch of various product development activities
c) All of the mentioned
d) None of the mentioned
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Software Architecture and Design.
To practice all areas of Software Design and Architecture, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Software Design and Architecture.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Software Design Question and Answers – Software Design Management» Next - Software Design Question and Answers – Project Mission Statement 
