1. Which of the following statement is true?
a) The stakeholder’s needs are part of design problem
b) The stakeholder’s needs are part of design solution
c) Stakeholder’s needs are not a part of design solution
d) None of the mentioned
a
2. Which of these is not a problem of stakeholder’s needs elicitation?
a) Stakeholder’s are readily available to designers
b) Unfocused questions usually produce a jumble of responses about different product aspects at different level of abstraction
c) Stakeholder’s are unable to explain how they work, what they want from product
d) Stakeholder’s misunderstands the limits and capabilities of technology
a
3. Which among these is not a heuristic for stakeholder’s needs elicitation?
a) Determine stakeholder goal as the context of stakeholder needs and desires
b) Study user tasks
c) Learn about problem domain at the later stages
d) All of the mentioned
c
4. Elicitation techniques include ____________
a) Interviews
b) Observation
c) Focus Groups
d) All of the mentioned
d
5. Which of the following statement is true?
a) A prototype is a working model of part or final product
b) A focus group is a facilitated and directed decision aimed at describing product design problem or establishing stakeholder’s needs and desires
c) An elicitation workshop is an informal discussion among few people leb by facilitator who keeps groupon topic
d) All of the mentioned
a
6. Which of the following statement is incorrect?
a) Data about the  problem domain can further categorized to form organization chart and Data about stakeholder’s organization can be made into problem domain glossary
b) Data about the  problem domain can further categorized  to form problem domain glossary and  Data about stakeholder’s organization can be made into organizational chart
c) All of the mentioned
d) None of the mentioned
a
7. Which of these statements justify needs documentation and analysis?
a) Stakeholders-goals list is a catalog of important stakeholder categories and their goals
b) A need list documents a single product feature, function, or property needed or desired by one or more stakeholders
c) A need statement catalogs need statements
d) All of the mentioned
a
8. Main item checked for errors while eliciting needs?
a) Correctness
b) Terminological Consistency
c) Scope
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. Which of the following statement is false?
a) Terminological consistency is simply using words with same meaning and always using the same words to refer to particular thing
b) A stakeholder goal or need is within the project scope
c) A statement is correct if it is contingent and accords with the facts
d) None of the mentioned
d
10. Which of these are not purchaser (stakeholder) goals?
a) Pay the least for a product that meets irrigation needs
b) Purchase a product that is cheap to operate
c) Purchase a product that is cheap to maintain
d) Have a product that is easy and fast to install
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Software Architecture and Design.
To practice all areas of Software Design for Campus Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Software Design and Architecture.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Software Design Question and Answers – Product Design Analysis» Next - Software Design Questions and Answers – Generating Alternative Requirements 
