1. Why does architectural design occurs during product design?
a) Stakeholders must convinced that their needs will be met, which may be difficult without demonstrating how the engineers plan to build the product
b) Product designers must judge the feasibility of their designs
c) Project planners must have some idea about what software must be built to create schedules and allocate resources
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. What kind of investments does organization have in order to make most of by the software architects in their design?
a) Libraries
b) Standards and guidelines
c) Software tools
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. Which of the following is true?
a) The input of architectural design process is SAD
b) The output of architectural design process is SRS
c) The input of architectural design process is SRS
d) None of the mentioned
c
4. Which of these steps are followed in architectural design process?
a) Analyze SRS
b) Evaluate Candidate Architectures
c) Select architecture and finalize architecture
d) All of the mentioned
d
5. Which of these are the content for SAD?
a) Product Overview
b) Architectural Models
c) Architectural design rationale
d) All of the mentioned
d
6. Which of these are included in the product overview for SAD?
a) product vision, assumptions, constraints
b) product scope
c) target markets, business requirements
d) product vision, assumptions, constraints, target markets & business requirements
d
7. Which amount the following is correct?
a) Architectural models explains the main design decisions made in arriving the architecture
b) Architectural design rationale presents architecture, using variety of models to represent different aspects or views
c) Mapping between models says sometimes it is difficult to connect different architectural models
d) All of the mentioned
c
8. What are the categories in which quality attributes are divided in?
a) Development Attributes
b) Operational Attributes
c) Functional Attributes
d) Development & Operational Attributes
d
9. Which of these comes under development attribute?
a) Maintainability
b) Reusability
c) Performance
d) Maintainability & Reusability
d
10. Which of these comes under operational attributes?
a) Performance
b) Availability
c) Reliability
d) All of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Software Architecture and Design.
To practice all areas of Software Design and Architecture, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Software Design and Architecture.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Software Design Questions and Answers – Modularity Principles» Next - Software Design Questions and Answers – Specifying Software Architectures 
