1. What are the main aspects of business qualities?
a) Cost
b) Schedule
c) All of the mentioned
d) None of the mentioned
c
2. Which of the following are the concerns for business cost and schedule?
a) Time to Market
b) Target Market
c) Extensive use of legacy system
d) All of the mentioned
a
3. Which of the following are the concerns for market and marketing considerations?
a) Targeted Market
b) Cost
c) Projected lifetime of the system
d) Time to the market
a
4. What is time to market?
a) The ability to insert a component into a system depends on the decomposition of the system into components
b) It is ability to make changes quickly and cost effectively follows directly from architecture
c) It is ability of system to run into different environments
d) None of the mentioned
a
5. Which of the following is true?
a) Time to market is increased by using pre-built components such as commercial off the shelf products
b) Time to market is reduced by using pre-built components such as commercial off the shelf products
c) Time to market is may or may not increase by using pre-built components such as commercial off the shelf products
d) None of the mentioned
b
6. What conclusion can be made from the following statements?
a) Different architecture will yield different development costs
b) Same architecture will yield different development costs
c) Same architecture will yield Same development costs
d) None of the mentioned
a
7. Which of the following is correct for the architecture for cost?
a) Architecture the relies on technology is less expensive than that takes advantage of assets already in the house
b) Architecture the relies on technology is more expensive than that takes advantage of assets already in the house
c) Architecture the relies on technology is not affected in expense than that takes advantage of assets already in the house
d) None of the mentioned
b
8. Which of the following aspects are highlighted in projected lifetime of the system?
a) Reusability and Testability
b) Modifiability and Reusability
c) Reusability and Portability
d) Modifiability and Portability
d
9. Which of the following is a key to market share?
a) Modifiability and Portability
b) Reusability and Testability
c) Portability and functionality
d) Reusability and functionality
c
10. Which of the following plays equal role in targeted market?
a) Performance, Security, Usability
b) Performance, Security, Functionality
c) Performance, Availability, Reliability
d) None of the mentioned
d
11. Which of the following are important aspects for the quality of roll-out schedule?
a) Flexibility and Customizability
b) Flexibility and Reusability
c) Reusability and Customizability
d) All of the mentioned
a
12. Which of the following is considered for the extensive use of legacy systems?
a) If the new system must integrate with the existing systems, care must be taken to define appropriate integration mechanisms
b) If the new system must integrate with the existing systems, care may or may not be taken to define appropriate integration mechanisms
c) If the new system must integrate with the existing systems, care must not be taken to define appropriate integration mechanisms
d) None of the mentioned
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Software Architecture.
 Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Software Architecture.
To practice all features of Software Architecture, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Software Architecture.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Software Architecture Questions and Answers – System Quality Attributes Not Discernable At Runtime» Next - Software Architecture Questions and Answers – Architecture Qualities 
