1. Software Design consists of _____________
a) Software Product Design
b) Software Engineering Design
c) Software Product & Engineering Design
d) None of the mentioned
c
2. Which of the following is true?
a) Analysis – Solving problem
b) Design – Understanding problem
c) Analysis & Design
d) None of the mentioned
d
3. Which of these are followed in case of software design process?
a) Analysis occurs at start of product design with a product idea
b) Analysis occurs at the end of engineering design with the SRS
c) Product design resolution produces the design document
d) Engineering design resolution produces the SRS
a
4. Which of these is not in sequence for generic  problem solving strategy?
a) Understand the problem
b) Generate candidate solutions
c) Iterate if no solution is adequate
d) None of the mentioned
c
5. Which of these is not in sequence for generic design process?
a) Analyze the Problem
b) Evaluate candidate solutions
c) Finalize the Design
d) None of the mentioned
b
6. Why do you think iteration is important for design?
a) To frequently reanalyze the problem
b) To generate and improve solutions only once for better output
c) All of the mentioned
d) None of the mentioned
a
7. What is true about generic software product design process?
a) It begins with SRS
b) It ends with Product Design Problem
c) Analysis is done and end product is project mission statement
d) None of the mentioned
d
8. Generic software engineering design process defined by which of these steps?
a) Generic software engineering design process first job after analysis is detailed design
b) Attention is turned later to architectural design
c) Architectural design is not followed by Detailed design
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. Which of these is said to be true about resolution process in generic software engineering design process?
a) Architectural design is low resolution process
b) Detailed design is high resolution process
c) All of the mentioned
d) None of the mentioned
d
10. Which step among these follows the wrong sequence in software engineering design process?
a) Analyze problem
b) Generate candidate architecture
c) Finalize design
d) Select detailed design
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Software Architecture and Design.
To practice all areas of Software Design and Architecture, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Software Design and Architecture.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Software Design Question and Answers – Software Engineering Design Method» Next - Software Design Question and Answers – Software Design Management 
