1. Which the given method is used for dewatering of the foundation trenches.
a) Deep boring
b) Geophysical method
c) Well Point System
d) Analytical method
c
2. Identify the missing data.
a) Riser
b) Swinger arm
c) Header
d) Head
a
3. Identify the missing data.
a) Jetting hole
b) Header
c) Riser
d) Swinger arm
b
4. Identify the type of Well Point System.
a) Vacuum system
b) Single stage system
c) Pumping
d) Multi stage system
d
5. Identify the type of Well Point System.
a) Vacuum system
b) Single stage system
c) Multi stage system
d) Pumping
a
6. In case of releasing artesian pressure, which precaution should be taken when the system of well points is adopted.
a) Pumping rate
b) Air locks
c) Duplication of pumps
d) Blowing action
d
7. Which precautions to be taken in case of multistage system to achieve stability of the side slope?
a) Deep well pumps
b) Duplication of pumps
c) Connections
d) Pumping
a
8. The organic Chemicals include epoxy resin, polyester resin and other resins are used in which method of dewatering of the foundation trenches.
a) Well Point System
b) Cement grouting
c) Chemical grouting
d) Electro osmosis process
c
9. From given below, which method for the dewatering of foundation trenches is portable and can be easily moved when required?
a) Pumping
b) Well Point System
c) Freezing process
d) Electro osmosis process
a
10. Identify the type of Well Point System which can suck water up to 5 meters?
a) Single stage system
b) Multi stage system
c) Vacuum system
d) Pumping
a
11. From the below diagram, identify the Method used for the dewatering of the foundation trenches.
a) Pumping
b) Freezing process
c) Electro osmosis process
d) Well Point System
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Construction and Building Materials.
To practice all areas of Construction and Building Materials, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Construction & Building Materials Questions and Answers – Deep Excavations – Some Terms in Timbering» Next - Construction & Building Materials Questions and Answers – Deep Excavations – Dewatering of Foundation Trenches 
