DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFP)
ALL INTERESTED

DATE:
REFERENCE:

June 18, 2021
458RE-2021-UNDP-UKR-RFP-SMERec

Dear Sir / Madam:

We hereby invite you to submit your Proposal for performing for services to develop and
launch an export-oriented umbrella brand for agri-food products.
Please be guided by the form attached hereto as Annex 2, in preparing your Proposal.
Proposals may be submitted on or before close of business Sunday, July 04, 2021 , till
23:59 Kyiv time via email to the address below:
United Nations Development Programme
tenders.ua@undp.org
Procurement Unit
In the course of preparing your Proposal, it shall remain your responsibility to ensure that it
reaches the address above on or before the deadline. Proposals that are received by UNDP after the
deadline indicated above, for whatever reason, shall not be considered for evaluation. If you are
submitting your Proposal by email, kindly ensure that they are signed and in the .pdf format, and
free from any virus or corrupted files.
Services proposed shall be reviewed and evaluated based on completeness and compliance
of the Proposal and responsiveness with the requirements of the RFP and all other annexes providing
details of UNDP requirements.
The Proposal that complies with all of the requirements, meets all the evaluation criteria and
offers the best value for money shall be selected and awarded the contract. Any offer that does not
meet the requirements shall be rejected.
Any discrepancy between the unit price and the total price shall be re-computed by UNDP,
and the unit price shall prevail, and the total price shall be corrected. If the Service Provider does
not accept the final price based on UNDP’s re-computation and correction of errors, its Proposal will
be rejected.
No price variation due to escalation, inflation, fluctuation in exchange rates, or any other
market factors shall be accepted by UNDP after it has received the Proposal. At the time of Award of
1

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

Contract or Purchase Order, UNDP reserves the right to vary (increase or decrease) the quantity of
services and/or goods, by up to a maximum twenty-five per cent (25%) of the total offer, without any
change in the unit price or other terms and conditions.
Any Contract or Purchase Order that will be issued as a result of this RFP shall be subject to
the General Terms and Conditions attached hereto. The mere act of submission of a Proposal implies
that the Service Provider accepts without question the General Terms and Conditions of UNDP,
herein attached as Annex 4.
Please be advised that UNDP is not bound to accept any Proposal, nor award a contract or
Purchase Order, nor be responsible for any costs associated with a Service Providers preparation and
submission of a Proposal, regardless of the outcome or the manner of conducting the selection
process.
UNDP’s vendor protest procedure is intended to afford an opportunity to appeal for persons
or firms not awarded a Purchase Order or Contract in a competitive procurement process. In the
event that you believe you have not been fairly treated, you can find detailed information about
vendor protest procedures in the following link:
http://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/home/operations/procurement/business/protest-andsanctions.html
UNDP encourages every prospective Service Provider to prevent and avoid conflicts of
interest, by disclosing to UNDP if you, or any of your affiliates or personnel, were involved in the
preparation of the requirements, design, cost estimates, and other information used in this RFP.
UNDP implements a zero tolerance on fraud and other proscribed practices, and is
committed to preventing, identifying and addressing all such acts and practices against UNDP, as
well as third parties involved in UNDP activities. UNDP expects its Service Providers to adhere to
the UN Supplier Code of Conduct found in this link :
https://www.un.org/Depts/ptd/sites/www.un.org.Depts.ptd/files/files/attachment/page/pdf/unscc/c
onduct_english.pdf
Thank you and we look forward to receiving your Proposal.
Sincerely yours,

Ms. Agnes Kochan,
Operations Manager,
UNDP in Ukraine

2

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

3

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

Annex 1

Description of Requirements
Context of the
Requirement

Building
Forward
Better:
Post-COVID
MSMEs towards Resilience and Sustainability

Implementing Partner
of UNDP

Ministry of Digital Transformation of Ukraine

Brief Description of the
Required Services1

The overall goal of the assignment is to articulate an idea for strategic orientation
and concrete plan of action for establishment, launch, development, monetization
and promotion of the export-oriented umbrella brand for the agri-food MSMEs
with clear objectives, activities, target measures and roles. The outputs should
cover short-, medium- and long-term activities and objectives, as well as be
forward-looking, containing a vision on how such umbrella brand may evolve and
contribute to financial sustainability of partner BMO, as umbrella brand
administrator, as well as help assure a commitment to exporting under the
umbrella brand over long term.

List and Description of
Expected Outputs to
be Delivered
Person to Supervise
the Work/Performance
of the Service Provider

Recovery

of

Ukraine’s

As per TOR in Annex 2

Project Manager, Building Forward Better: Post-COVID Recovery of Ukraine’s MSMEs
towards Resilience and Sustainability Project

Frequency of
Reporting

As required, regular progress meetings on request of the Supervisor

Progress Reporting
Requirements

All documents should be transmitted to UNDP electronically (formats of * .docx, *
.xlsx, * .pptx, * .pdf or other commonly used formats) in the Ukrainian language.

Location of work

☐ Exact Address/es [pls. specify]
☒ At Contractor’s Location

Expected duration of
work

4 month

Target start date

July, 2021

Latest completion date

October, 2021

Travels Expected

N/A

Special Security
Requirements

☐ Security Clearance from UN prior to travelling
☐ Completion of UN’s Basic and Advanced Security Training
☐ Comprehensive Travel Insurance
☐ Others [pls. specify]

A detailed TOR may be attached if the information listed in this Annex is not sufficient to fully describe the nature of the
work and other details of the requirements.
1

4

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

Facilities to be
Provided by UNDP (i.e.,
must be excluded from
Price Proposal)
Implementation
Schedule indicating
breakdown and timing
of activities/subactivities

☐ Office space and facilities
☐ Land Transportation
☐ Others [pls. specify]

☒ Required
☐ Not Required

Names and curriculum
vitae of individuals
who will be involved in
completing the
services
Currency of Proposal

☒ Required
☐ Not Required
Please indicate clear roles in implementation team in accordance with required
team minimum reflected in TOR

Value Added Tax on
Price Proposal

☒ must be inclusive of VAT and other applicable indirect taxes

Validity Period of
Proposals (Counting for
the last day of
submission of quotes)

☒ United States Dollars
☐ Euro
☒ Local Currency
The proposal will be fixed in the currency proposed. Please propose in only one
of applicable currencies.
In case of proposal in local currency, the amount will be converted to USD based
on UNORE currency rate for comparison.
Local suppliers with contracts fixed in USD are paid in local currency based on
UNORE rate for the date of payment.
https://treasury.un.org/operationalrates/OperationalRates.php

☐ must be exclusive of VAT and other applicable indirect taxes
☐ 60 days
☒ 90 days
☐ 120 days
In exceptional circumstances, UNDP may request the Proposer to extend the
validity of the Proposal beyond what has been initially indicated in this RFP. The
Proposal shall then confirm the extension in writing, without any modification
whatsoever on the Proposal.

Partial Quotes

Payment Terms

Person(s) to
review/inspect/
approve
outputs/completed
services and authorize

☒ Not permitted
☐ Permitted
The payment shall be arranged upon completion, presentation and UNDP
approval of the Deliverables as listed in TOR.

Project Manager, Building Forward Better: Post-COVID Recovery of Ukraine’s
MSMEs towards Resilience and Sustainability Project

5

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

the disbursement of
payment
Type of Contract to be
Signed

☐ Purchase Order
☐ Institutional Contract
☒ Contract for Professional Services
☐ Long-Term Agreement
☐ Other Type of Contract

Criteria for Contract
Award

☐ Lowest Price Quote among technically responsive offers
☒ Highest Combined Score (based on the 70% technical offer and 30% price
weight distribution)
☒ Full acceptance of the UNDP Contract General Terms and Conditions (GTC).
This is a mandatory criterion and cannot be deleted regardless of the nature of
services required. Non-acceptance of the GTC may be grounds for the rejection
of the Proposal.

Criteria for the
Assessment of
Proposal

Technical Proposal (70%)
☒ Expertise of the Firm 35%
☒ Methodology, Its Appropriateness to the Condition and Timeliness of the
Implementation Plan 35%
☒ Management Structure and Qualification of Key Personnel 30%
Financial Proposal (30%)
To be computed as a ratio of the Proposal’s offer to the lowest price among the
proposals received by UNDP.

UNDP will award the
contract to:

☒ One and only one Service Provider
☐ One or more Service Providers, depending on the following factors

Contract General
Terms and Conditions2

☒ General Terms and Conditions for contracts (goods and/or services)
☐ General Terms and Conditions for de minimis contracts (services only,
less than $50,000)
Applicable Terms and Conditions are available at:
http://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/home/procurement/business/how we-buy.html

Annexes to this RFP

☒ Form for Submission of Proposal (Annex 3)
☒ Detailed TOR (Annex 2)
☐ Others

Contact Person for
Inquiries
(Written inquiries
only)3

Procurement Unit UNDP
Kyiv, Ukraine
Procurement.ua@undp.org
Any delay in UNDP’s response shall be not used as a reason for extending the
deadline for submission, unless UNDP determines that such an extension is
necessary and communicates a new deadline to the Proposers.

Service Providers are alerted that non-acceptance of the terms of the General Terms and Conditions (GTC) may be grounds
for disqualification from this procurement process.
3 This contact person and address is officially designated by UNDP. If inquiries are sent to other person/s or address/es,
even if they are UNDP staff, UNDP shall have no obligation to respond nor can UNDP confirm that the query was received.
2

6

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

Documents to be
submitted with the
proposal









Duly filled in and signed forms of proposal (Annex 2)
Profile of the Organization: name of organization; address (legal and mailing),
telephone and fax numbers, contact persons, e‐mail addresses, as well as on
organization resources and capacities, including date of establishment,
information about activities of the organization, professional expertise,
experience, number of employees (information should not exceed three (3)
pages);
Proposed schedule with a list of key activities (information should not exceed
three (3) pages;
Proposed Methodology for the Completion of Assignment, including a
detailed description of how the proposed approach and methodology meets
or exceeds the requirements;
Examples or summaries of prior successful projects delivered (at least 3 cases
clearly illustrating relevance, the scope of work and results of Contractor’s
work);
 Copies of analytical reports prepared earlier:

Not less than two (2) on export development and promotion, economic and
business development, MSMEs, market innovation or transformation, shaping
value chains, trade and investment or closely related subjects.
 Description of the proposed team, including CVs of the team suggested and
relevant data that allows to assess their experience in similar engagements;
 Copy of state registration document and taxpayer certificate;
 Copy of balance sheets past 2 recent years for evaluation of financial
sustainability;
 A financial proposal in line with the instructions provided in the RFP.
Note: the financial proposal shall be in a password-protected archive and
separate from the technical proposal. The password to the financial proposal
archive shall not be provided unless requested and shall not be included with
the original submission – in the cover letter or any other submission part.

7

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

Pre-bid conference will be conducted
Other Information [pls.
specify]

24.06.2021, at 11:00
Via Zoom
To express your interest to take part please send notification to
procurement.ua@undp.org, point out tender reference in subject, the title of
the company, names and positions of the representatives including contact
details in the body of e-mail. Link to zoom conference will be provided upon
processing your inquiry.
Electronic submission requirements:
1.
2.
3.
4.

5.
6.
7.
8.

9.
10.

Format: PDF files, ZIP archives only
File names must be maximum 60 characters long and must not contain any
letter or special character other than from Latin alphabet/keyboard.
All files must be free of viruses and not corrupted.
Password for financial proposal must not be provided to UNDP until
requested by UNDP. Provision of non-password protected financial
proposal leads to disqualification from the tender process.
Time Zone to be Recognized: [Kyiv +3]
Max. File Size per transmission: 5 MB
Mandatory subject of email: 458RE-2021-UNDP-UKR-RFP-SMERec, Part
№…. From (total quantity of parts in submission)
Application forms to be filled in any of the languages listed:
English/Ukrainian; supporting documents such as local
registration/licenses/certificates issued in local language may be provided
without translation.
Please do not duplicate your submission to procurement.ua@undp.org.
This address is used only for questions and answers.
Other conditions: Proposers are solely responsible for ensuring that any and
all files sent to UNDP are readable, that is, uncorrupted, in the indicated
electronic format, and free from viruses and malware. Failure to provide
readable files will result in the proposal being rejected.

8

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

Annex 1
TERMS OF REFERENCE (TOR)
Project
title:
Building
Forward
Better:
Post-COVID
MSMEs towards Resilience and Sustainability, #00125945

Recovery

of

Ukraine’s

Description of the assignment: Develop a concept of export-oriented umbrella brand for agri-food
products
Category: Professional Consulting Services
Country / Place of implementation: Ukraine
Possible travels (if applicable): N/A
Starting date of assignment: June 2021
The term of the assignment/or end date (if applicable): 5 months
Administrative arrangements: The Project will not provide any facilities, equipment, support
personnel, support services or logistic; all travel costs (if needed) should also be included in the
Financial Proposal unless otherwise specified in this Terms of Reference. All events and meetings are
expected to be organized virtually (online)
Supervisor’s name and functional post: Maksym Boroda, Project Manager, Building Forward
Better: Post-COVID Recovery of Ukraine’s MSMEs towards Resilience and Sustainability Project
PREAMBLE
The private sector plays a significant role in advancing sustainable economic growth in Ukraine. It
includes large firms and micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs). In Ukraine, MSMEs
dominate the economy in terms of the number of entities, employment and value-added.
According to the State Statistics Service of Ukraine, in 2018, the country had 446 large enterprises
and 1,839,147 SMEs, which constituted over 99.9 per cent of all operating enterprises. 1,466,803 (80
per cent) of all MSMEs were self-employed individuals (Private Persons-Entrepreneurs). Of all the
SMEs, 99.10 per cent are small entities, and 0.89 per cent are medium. In 2018, the SME sector in
Ukraine accounted for 81 per cent of all employment and about 64 per cent of value-added.
In recent years, the Government of Ukraine has increased its efforts to support MSMEs in the
economy. However, according to the OECD SME Policy Index for Ukraine in 2020, compared to
other Eastern Partnership countries, Ukraine lags behind the vast majority of indicators – innovation
policy, institutional framework, the operational environment, bankruptcy, green economy, business
development services, internationalisation, access to finance, public procurement and SME skills.
The socio-economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has deepened the challenges faced by
SMEs. Necessary measures to contain the virus through quarantines, travel restrictions, and cities’
lockdown have resulted in a significant reduction in demand and supply. SMEs provide work for
more than 4 million people in Ukraine and generate about 20% of GDP. Nevertheless, since the
lockdown, the Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce and Industry estimated that 700,000 SMEs have
closed. One-third of business owners (mainly micro-entrepreneurs) have claimed a 90-100% drop
in revenue since quarantine and have laid off up to 50% of staff.
According to UNDP’s socio-economic impact assessment (SEIA) in Ukraine, women who are the
owners of a business were more likely to indicate that they had experienced “significant changes”
in their business during the pandemic than men owners (64% vs 53%). The pandemic severely
impacted women and entrepreneurs who are younger than 40 years old: 79% of women
entrepreneurs reported negative effects of the crisis vs 68% of men, and 80% of young
entrepreneurs vs 68% of older ones. In 2019, women-owned enterprises had a lower annual
financial turnover than men-owned ones: 66% of enterprises owned by women had an annual
9

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

turnover of less than UAH 1 million compared to 48% of men owners. During the pandemic,
women owners indicated a decrease in their enterprise’s monthly turnover more often than men
owners (84% vs 78% male). The smaller the enterprise, the more likely it was owned by a woman.
Micro and small enterprises were most affected as they depended on self-financing to mitigate the
crisis.
Amongst the various MSME sectors that may be given priority support under the auspices of this
Project, agricultural MSMEs, especially ones owned or led by women, stand out. FAO conducted a
rapid survey to assess COVID-19 impacts on the agriculture sector in April 2020. The survey
investigated the functioning of food supply chains by interviewing key actors – farmers, processors,
wholesalers and retailers. The survey showed that the most affected food supply chains are fruits,
vegetables, milk and dairy. Their main problems are related to transportation, storage and at the
retail level. Besides, access to imported inputs remains a concern.
In order to address the abovementioned challenges, the Post-COVID Recovery of Ukraine’s MSMEs
towards Resilience and Sustainability Project builds on the results of situation analysis and UNDP’s
experience in aiding MSMEs throughout the first stage of the pandemic. Related potential priorities
for UNDP Ukraine interventions includes:





Support to small and medium entrepreneurship as one of the core economic lynchpins of
Ukraine’s economy, with particular attention to gender equality, empowerment and digital
transformation.
Search for tipping points in the application of digital transformation instruments to expedite
business recovery.
Commitment to furthering SDGs and instrumentalising them to address COVID-related
threats.

The Project will target MSMEs in the agri-food and adjacent sectors with a focus towards womenowned or women-managed businesses: both family-operated and larger producers that have
potential for development and guide their business towards better resilience and sustainability.
The Project intends to achieve the following outputs:
1. Women-driven MSMEs in agri-food and adjacent sectors have better capacity to apply resilient
and sustainable business-models;
2. Ukraine’s MSMEs, particularly those owned/led by women and representing agri-food and
adjacent sectors, enjoy better access to business-development services, local and global markets
and finances through digital solutions.
In order to ease the access of Ukraine’s MSMEs to the global market, the Project will support the
establishment, development and promotion of the export-oriented umbrella brand for the agrifood MSMEs. It will build on the experience of the UNDP Strengthening MSMEs BMOs in Ukraine
Project and its partner BMOs, in particular “Taste of Carpathian” and “Organic Ukraine”, which
brings together small local farmers and food manufacturers under umbrella brands. Such an
approach will allow overcoming the existing capacity limitations of small agricultural and food
producers to export their products directly due to language barriers, financial and technical
constraints. It will embrace nation-wide supply and value chains with particular focus on the
regions mostly affected by the COVID-19 impact and with the highest density of respective
production facilities. Sustainability strategy for the umbrella brand will ensure its operational and
financial capacities as well as awareness, preparedness and resilience towards pandemics and other
crises in the future.
OVERALL OBJECTIVES AND TASKS
Umbrella brands are traditionally considered as “bonds of quality”, through which the sellers can signal
higher quality to the buyer and/or reduce buyer’s perceived risk. Moreover, through an umbrella
10

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

brand, a seller can obtain economies of scope in advertising and promotion activities, as well as in
logistic, transport and other operational expenditures.
The MSMEs often lack competencies and resources to successfully access international market on
their own, including experience and knowledge on how to profitably deal with international buyers,
sufficient production volumes, scarce information on quality and certification requirements,
financial resources to upgrade their facilities or product characteristics to meet international market
requirements.
One option to address these constraints for MSMEs is to collaborate with other MSMEs having
similar intent to enter the international market together. The approach works best when there are
strong social ties and trust among partners, which is often a case for MSMEs being members of
one business membership organizations (BMOs). Having this competitive advantage, BMOs have a
long-term potential of transforming management and adjunct services for such umbrella brands
into the business services to MSMEs members.
The overall goal of the assignment is to articulate an idea for strategic orientation and concrete
plan of action for establishment, launch, development, monetization and promotion of the exportoriented umbrella brand for the agri-food MSMEs with clear objectives, activities, target measures
and roles. The outputs should cover short-, medium- and long-term activities and objectives, as
well as be forward-looking, containing a vision on how such umbrella brand may evolve and
contribute to financial sustainability of partner BMO, as umbrella brand administrator, as well as
help assure a commitment to exporting under the umbrella brand over long term.
SCOPE OF WORK AND EXPECTED OUTCOMES
Under the UNDP Project Manager’s supervision and in coordination with the Project Team, the
Contractor will accomplish the following activities.
STAGE 1 – MARKET RESEARCH
1.1. Conduct a desk review of UNDP’s background documents and prepare a detailed work
plan. The work plan should specify the activity areas, the composition of the team and their
respective capacities (i.e. number and qualification of the key personnel required for the study and
research), travel and logistic arrangements (if any), a detailed timeline of work with fixed deadlines.
The Contractor should draft a work plan in close consultation with UNDP.
1.2. Develop a methodology to attain or exceed the objectives and goals of the assignment and
submit it to UNDP for review and approval. Overall, the Contractor is expected to use a desk review
to study secondary sources and virtual (online) meetings and/or telephone interviews for obtaining
primary data, validating the findings and hypotheses.
The methodology should include (but not limited to):


Detailed description of the approach to reach specific objectives of this assignment and retrieve
required information, and timelines.



Tools for data collection (as envisaged by the methodological approach, may include draft
interview protocols/guides, draft survey questionnaire or other necessary tools to collect required
information from BMOs or their MSMEs).

Suggested criteria for selecting the partner organization among all potential BMOs and products
for export under the umbrella brand. The criteria may consider (but not limited to): commitment of
BMOs and availability of human and financial resources for managing the brand and its promotion,
experience with international markets, current MSMEs sales at the local market and reputation,
production capacities and ability to address additional demand, availability of financial resources
for adapting the product to the export market, commitment of member MSMEs management to
11

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

support export efforts.NOTE: The Contractor should discuss goals of assignment and methodology
with UNDP and obtain approval to the final version of the methodology from UNDP before starting
the work.
1.3. Organize online meetings with four (4) BMOs and collect information on categories of
products available for export and prior export experience, lessons learned and trends for those (if
any), production capacity and seasonal fluctuations, priorities for export markets and expectations
from export, interest among member MSMEs and feedback on commitment of the BMO to be
significantly engaged into the initiative, availability of human and other resources and other key
issues relevant to the assignment and required to inform analysis as per established criteria.
Online meetings with four (4) BMOs (Organic Ukraine, Karpatsky Smak, Association of Milk
Producers, Interregional Union of Poultry Breeders and Fodder Producers of Ukraine)4 are expected,
but the Contractor must be ready to deliver additional meetings and interviews with BMOs or their
member MSMEs, as many as required to collect all required information and clarifications until
categories of products, target markets and a partner for collaboration within this assignment is
identified. All meetings are expected to be organized virtually (online) and recorded. A
representative of UNDP should be invited to all meetings as an observer. Meeting recordings to be
provided to UNDP with the Final Technical Report.
Collate and assess information received from these four (4) BMOs and their member MSMEs (if
applicable) against basic criteria established as a part of methodology. Where needed and in order
to fill in the gaps, contact the partner BMOs for additional clarifications and/or collect secondary
data from open sources to complement the available information.
Compile concise and accurate profile for each of four (4) BMOs (up to 3 pages A4, 11pts), which
would demonstrate main characteristics, display strength and weaknesses, pros and cons for
becoming project partner for this assignment. Each BMO case file should contain (but not limited to)
of the following sections:
- General information on the BMO and selected categories of products.
- Brief analysis by key selection criteria.
- Pros and cons of selecting the BMO as a project partner, SWOT for BMOs.
- Pros and cons of selecting suggested categories of products.
1.4. Rank four (4) BMOs based on selection criteria. Select (1) partner BMO in consultation
with UNDP.
1.5. Identify up to five (5) product categories having the most competitive advantage to be
potentially exported under the umbrella brand in consultation with partner BMO and its members
(online meetings).
Conduct market research on the countries of interest (up to 5 prospective markets) and identify
one (1) target country with the highest export potential5.

4

In case no suitable partner is identified upon consultations and meetings, the Contractor should promptly inform
UNDP on such outcome with detail information on the reasons. In such case, upon assessment of the situation, UNDP
will suggest another candidate BMO for consideration.
5 The contractor must ensure that the selected target country is sufficiently large and has ample import potential to
ensure financial sustainability of further export operations under the umbrella brand.
12

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

The Contractor must be ready to organize virtual (online) meetings with UNDP, selected BMO and if
required its member MSMEs, as many as required to finalize the list of products for export and market
in focus.
STAGE 2 – BRAND CONCEPT DEVELOPMENT
2.1. Develop a Brand Strategy, defining the foundations of the brand. The Brand Strategy should
include (but not limited to):
1) Brand core, positioning, principles.
2) Value proposition. Criteria and procedure for product quality assurance. Quality Seal.
Note: The Contractor will identify the virtues of selected agri-food products that can be effectively
promoted to increase their brand value. Some of these may include (but not limited to): unique features,
quality, origin, sustainability, etc.
3) Brand messaging.
4) Visual identity (at least 3 distinct draft variants should be suggested by a Contractor for review
and approval by UNDP and partner BMO).
The Contractor will collect information and suggestions from UNDP and key partners, develop the
first draft of the strategy and submit to UNDP for approval. The Contractor should ensure that specific
challenges of the potential target markets are taken into account during the brand development (i.e.
cultural differences and related perceptions of specific visual elements, meaning of the brand name
in the target languages etc.)
.
2.2. Facilitate at least one (1) online meeting to present the first umbrella brand concept and
collect feedback from UNDP and partner BMO. The Contractor must be ready to deliver additional
meetings with BMO or UNDP if there is a need or request from the Partners. All meetings are
expected to be organized virtually (online). Amend the first draft incorporating the feedback
received and submit to UNDP for review and approval.
2.3. As the strategy is finalized, the Contractor will design Brand Guidelines and submit to UNDP
for review and approval. The Brand Guidelines should contain (but not limited to) brand core,
attributes, visual guidelines (elements, logo usage, colour palettes, typography, do/don’ts etc.). The
Contractor is expected to suggest the contents based on the Brand Strategy developed.
NOTE: All documents and materials must be prepared in close consultation with UNDP and partner
BMO and must be approved by UNDP prior to further processing and any sharing externally.
STAGE 3 – PLAN FOR ACTION
3.1. Develop an Export Strategy for one (1) priority market and a plan of action for selected
up to five (5) categories of products that will give a clear understanding of specific steps that need
to be taken and help assure a commitment to exporting over long term.
The Export Strategy is expected to be developed as a flexible management tool for the brand
owner/administrator, not a static document.
It should specify (but not limited to):


Market access and entry requirements and an action plan to ensure compliance of the umbrella
brand products. Market entry considerations should include, but not be limited to: required
modifications to products, requirements to packaging or labelling (additional information,
design, translation, specific markings, size and materials of packaging etc.), legislation and rules,
13

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

requirements for licenses or certificates to export and to import the product(s), import
requirements and restrictions, customs procedures and documentation, food safety and other
food certification requirements, recommendations on protection of intellectual property rights,
key trade agreements, trade barriers or incentives, logistical services and transportation
infrastructure, distribution, business environment (i.e. competition, cultural differences), other
operational challenges.


Product Pricing Strategy. Pricing considerations should account for (but not limited to) price and
delivery terms, fright, insurance, duties, certifications, marketing, taxes, distributor and wholesale
margins, retailer fees, brand owner fees, VAT%, and other related costs.



Marketing and PR Strategy. The strategy should include (but not limited to) vision of entering into
the international market, customer profiles, intermediaries, positioning and raising brandawareness (B2B – buyers/intermediaries, B2C - among consumers etc.), promotional materials,
outreach, marketing and distribution channels, monitoring and evaluation of results etc. The
Contractor should ensure that marketing strategy is feasible considering financial and technical
capacities of the BMO and its MSME members.




Evaluation instruments for comparison of objectives with actual results to measure the success.



Flowchart of the export process, including estimated costs and timing for each stage (i.e. customs
clearance, shipment etc).



Templates and samples for documentation needed to comply with the requirements across
markets (i.e. commercial invoice, a pro-forma invoice, insurance documents, certificates of origin,
sales contracts or else).



Appropriate controls and governance structures, including (but not limited to) on how the partners
(member MSMEs) collectively and individually can engage in new market opportunities, the exit
and entry of partners, as well as possible phase out of the umbrella brand. Structural changes in
MSME group should be ex-ante organized as a natural adaptive and evolutionary process, so
that the risks of related organizational shocks are minimized.

STAGE 4 – KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT AND OUTREACH
4.1. Develop a Market Entry Handbook for selected categories of products. The Contractor will
analyse and consolidate the data obtained during Stages 1-3 and produce a high-quality practical
guide to the selected markets for specific Ukrainian Agri-food products selected for export under
the umbrella brand. The Handbook is expected to be used by partner BMO and MSMEs interested
to export under the umbrella brand. The Report shall be prepared in Ukrainian and English (up to
60 pages each, A4, 11pts).
The final structure and content of the Report shall be agreed with UNDP and consist of the
following tentative sections (not inclusive):
1. Executive summary (2-3 pages).
2. Abbreviations, terminology and definitions, lists of tables and charts.
3. Description of methodology, including limitations and challenges encountered.
4. Target country profile: economic and political trends, economic situation and midterm outlook,
geography and key markets, domestic agricultural production and regions.
5. Introduction to target market and consumers: demand for imported agri-food products, growth
drivers and trends, consumer profiles and preferences, cultural sensitivities and do/don’ts, and
other considerations.
14

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

6. Market access and entry: SWOT, legislation and rules, import requirements and restrictions,
customs procedures and documentation, food safety and other food certification requirements,
labelling requirements, protection of international property rights and relevant authorities, key
trade agreements, trade barriers, logistical services and transportation infrastructure, distribution,
business environment, key operational challenges.
7. Market snapshots for up to five (5) selected products / product categories: SWOT analysis,
consumption, offer, specific market entry requirements, distribution, challenges for Ukrainian
product.
8. Annexes.
4.2. Develop a concept for organizing “first contact” with the target market through
participation in relevant virtual (online) trade fair, trade mission, exhibition or similar. UNDP
will support engagement of relevant stakeholders/partners, including Entrepreneurship and Export
Promotion Office, MEDT, partner BMOs and/or others as relevant. At least 30 Ukrainian MSMEs
(including 15 women-led) are expected to be engaged by the Contractor in cooperation with
partner BMO and UNDP. The Contractor must ensure participation (invite, engage) of potential
partners (at least three) for import and sale of products in the target market (importers,
distributors, wholesalers, representatives of BMOs among others).
Facilitate the event following the concept approved by UNDP.
The following conditions (but not limited to) should be respected:
- The event is expected to be organized virtually (online).
- The event may be organized as a virtual/online participation in international exhibition/fair, virtual
trade mission, or similar event where partner BMO and Ukrainian MSMEs can meet with potential
partners from the target market country. The idea should be suggested by the Contractor and
approved by UNDP.
- The event concept should include the objectives of the event, envisaged participants and clear
indicators to measure the results.
- The Contractor must ensure participation of at least 30 Ukrainian MSMEs (including 15
women-led) that are interested to export selected products to the target market under the
umbrella brand.
- The Contractor must ensure participation of potential partners (at least three) for import and sale
of products in the target market (importers, distributors, wholesalers, representatives of BMOs
among others). The list of participants from the target market should be suggested by the
Contractor and approved by UNDP.
- The Contractor will be responsible for preparation of the agenda of the event, inviting all the
relevant stakeholders in partnership with UNDP, as well as introductory training to partner BMO
and MSMEs representatives on approach and instruments for effective participation in the event,
partnership building, and key actions required to achieve successful outcomes.
- The Contractor must also prepare an event report after the event, including information on
participants, results achieved, and actions agreed to be taken.
Event services (venue, technical support, printed products and design, promotion, translation,
broadcasting, equipment and other arrangements), if any required, will be ensured by a UNDP’s
conference service provider and covered by UNDP Project separately.
4.3. Public presentation to key stakeholders.
Upon completing the assignment, the Contractor will prepare a Ukrainian and English presentation,
which should cover methodology, umbrella brand development challenges and results, findings and
conclusions. The primary focus of the presentation should be on vision and recommendations for
further action.

15

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

The Contractor is expected to participate in at least one (1) public event to present the umbrella brand
and a plan for further action. It is expected that all events will be organized online (virtually). If an
event is organized offline, the event’s logistic arrangements will be covered separately by UNDP, and
the Contractor should not include these costs into the financial proposal.
All presentations should be prepared in PowerPoint format using the template provided by UNDP.
NOTE: Any information, reports, presentations, and other materials should be agreed upon
with UNDP before sharing externally. All information and products produced by the
Contractor under this Project will remain property of the UNDP.
To ensure the proper delivery of the above tasks, the Contractor will:
• Hold inception and follow-up meetings with the UNDP project team as requested.
• Prepare a detailed work plan with a timetable for this assignment.
• Submit all the deliverables for review, comments and approval to the UNDP project team as
requested.
• Develop tools and documentation described above in this Terms of Reference and validate/approve
them with the UNDP project team.
• Liaise and ensure constant communication/coordination with the UNDP project team regarding all
aspects of the assignment, and instantly inform UNDP of any difficulties or delays encountered
during the assignment to resolve them.
• Ensure the mainstreaming of gender equality and women’s empowerment considerations in
activities, promote a safe and enabling environment free of any kind of discrimination and abusive
behaviour, and use the principles of gender-responsive communications in line with the UNDP
corporate standards.
DELIVERABLES AND TIMELINE:
The target date for the start of work is May 2021. The Contractor is expected to complete the tasks
within the following tentative timeframe.
# Deliverable
Timeframe
1 An Inception Report and Methodology developed and submitted to
4 weeks
from signing the
UNDP for review and approval, comprising: a detailed methodology; a
contract
detailed work plan reflecting key actions, milestones, and updated
calendar with Gantt Chart, tools for data collection, criteria for partner
selection, outlines for materials and reports among other described in
1.1.-1.2. above.
Virtual (online) consultations with four (4) BMOs conducted to
identify potential partner for the initiative.
BMO profiles developed (at least 1 BMO, 2-3 pages A4, 11 pts) as
described in 1.3 above.
Up to five (5) product categories having the most competitive
advantage for export under the umbrella brand to the selected target
market selected in cooperation with partner BMO and UNDP.
2

At least one (1) online meeting to discuss the umbrella brand
concept and collect feedback from UNDP and BMO conducted.
Brand Strategy developed and approved by UNDP.
Brand Guidelines developed and submitted to UNDP for review and
approval.

6 weeks
from submission and
acceptance of
Deliverable 1
outcomes.

16

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

3

Export Strategy (in Ukrainian and English) developed, consulted with
UNDP and BMO, and approved by UNDP.

4

Market Entry Handbook (in Ukrainian and English, up to 60 pages A4
each, 11pts) developed and approved by UNDP.
One (1) “first contact” event for partner BMO and Ukrainian
MSMEs to meet target market partners facilitated in line with
requirements as per 4.2. above and report on results developed.

6 weeks
from submission and
acceptance of
Deliverable 2
outcomes.
4 weeks
from submission and
acceptance of
Deliverable 3
outcomes.

Umbrella brand and a recommendations for further action
presented to key stakeholders at minimum one (1) public event.

PAYMENT SCHEDULE
Payment will be made in two tranches according to the following payment schedule:
First payment ‐ upon satisfactory completion and acceptance by UNDP of Deliverables 1-2 (50%).
Second payment ‐ upon satisfactory completion and acceptance by UNDP of Deliverables 3-4 (50%).

COPYRIGHT
All information and products produced by the Contractor under this Project will remain property of the
UNDP.

MONITORING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
The Contractor will work under the Project Manager’s supervision and in close cooperation with the Project
team.
The Contractor shall comply with the monitoring, evaluation, and quality control implemented by the UNDP.
All necessary information, reports, statistics, electronic and paper version of the reports should be prepared
and submitted for clearance by UNDP according to a preliminary determined schedule or as quickly as
possible (within the agreed period).
The Contractor must consult with UNDP on all the steps of the process and proceed to the next step only
upon obtaining approval on the accomplished step. The organization should arrange its activities based on
the principle of constructive cooperation. It is mandatory to take into account all proposals of UNDP.
After completing all activities, the Contractor is to submit to the UNDP a Final Technical Report, containing a
brief description of the work performed and the deliverables. The Final Technical Report should also contain
information related to the overall organization and execution of the research, data analysis, highlighting any
considerable difficulties, challenges and deviations from the original plan and any other notable occurrences.
All major deliverables should be prepared in Ukrainian and English.
All reports and results are to be submitted to the UNDP in electronic form (*.docx, *.xlsx, *.pptx, and *.pdf or
other formats accepted by UNDP).
Other requirements to Analytical Reports
A report structure must include a cover page, table of contents, glossary of terms, abbreviations, lists of
tables and charts, introduction, executive summary, the text of the report, conclusion, recommendations,
annexes. The conclusions should be comprehensive and balanced, be well substantiated by the evidence and
logically linked to the assessment findings. The recommendations need to be supported by an evidential
basis, be credible, practical, action-oriented, and define who is responsible for the action to have the
potential to be used in decision-making. The Annexes should be duly numbered, and all tables should
contain references to sources and be numbered, as well as there should be references to them in the text of
the report. All visuals and tables throughout the report should be duly numbered.

17

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

The report should contain a bibliography and list of web-resources, if relevant. The final report should take
into account UNDP analytical standards and standards for writing reports. The report format (layout, text
borders, the design of charts and tables, format of titles, subtitles and main text and other) should provide
for convenient reading of the document and be in line with basic design requirements (aesthetics) to such
kind of documents. The report should be logical and understandable and have a limited number of
specialized terms. The report should also have a clear structure and be broken into sections (subsections).

MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
The Contractor shall be responsible for managing the assignment’s processes, human resources, logistics and
expenditures related to the assignment in terms of time and adequacy in close consultations with the UNDP.
The Contractor should ensure the reference to UNDP and the Donor.
Project implementation will be monitored along with the working plan, but UNDP reserve the right to
request information about the current level of progress at any stage. A final decision on the evaluation of
works delivered by the Contractor is made by the Project Manager.

EXPERIENCE AND QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS (ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA) TO CONTRACTOR
General requirements:

-

-

-

An officially registered company or organization (commercial, non-profit, non-governmental,
educational establishment). Applicants may submit their proposals as members of the
partnership/consortium. In this case, the contract will be concluded with the principal
organization. The principal organization shall conclude all partnership agreements. Legal
partnership registration is not required; however, partner companies shall commit themselves to
cooperate to fulfil the terms of the contract.
At least five (5) years of proven experience with consultancy assignments, market studies or
report writing.
At least three (3) years of proven experience with advisory, consultancy or research assignments
related to export promotion, economic development, MSME sector, business development or
closely related fields in Ukraine and internationally.
Experience in working with international organizations and donor agencies will be an asset.

Requirements for the Key Personnel:
1. Project Team Leader

-

-

-

-

At least a Master’s/Specialist’s degree in Business Administration, Marketing, Economics,
International Trade, Management, Social Sciences, Development Studies, Law, Public
Administration, or another related field. A postgraduate degree in the relevant field is an asset.
At least five (5) years of experience in project management and/or leading teams.
At least three (3) years of proven work experience in advising governments, non-governmental
organizations or private sector on export operations. Experience at the international level is an
asset.
Previous experience of working with agri-food exporters or international agri-food market
landscape would be an asset.
Excellent writing skills, analytic capacity and ability to synthesize inputs and relevant findings
(proven with samples of at least two (2) prepared or co-authored presentations or other analytical
documents with high-level recommendations, vision for market development and/or ideas for
strategic direction and plan of action).
Fluency in Ukrainian/Russian and English.

2. Key Expert 1 (Export Analyst)

-

At least a Master’s / Specialist’s degree in Business Administration, Public Administration,
Marketing, Economics, International Trade, Law, Finance, Management, Social Sciences, another
related field. A postgraduate degree in the relevant field is an asset.
18

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

-

At least five (5) years of proven professional experience in analytical work, advisory or consultancy
with both public or private sector.
At least three (3) years of professional experience in export consultancy.
Previous experience of working with agri-food exporters or international agri-food market
landscape would be an asset.
Excellent writing skills, analytic capacity and ability to synthesize inputs and relevant findings
(proven with samples of at least two (2) prepared or co-authored analytical documents).
Fluency in Ukrainian, Russian and English.

3. Key Expert 2 (Branding Expert)

-

-

-

At least Master’s/Specialist’s degree in Social Sciences, Marketing, Economics, International
Trade, Management, or other related fields. A postgraduate degree in the relevant field is an
asset.
At least five (5) years of proven work experience in brand development and management.
Experience with the development of brands for export or brand management and administration
at the international level is an added advantage.
Familiarity with agri-food sector, its value chain and challenges is a strong asset.
Fluency in Ukrainian, Russian and English.

DOCUMENTS TO BE SUBMITTED WITH THE APPLICATION
Technical proposal (see more details below)
Financial proposal (see more details below)

TECHNICAL PROPOSAL
Required
Letter of interest/letter of proposal, with general information on the Organization: name of
organization; address (legal and mailing), telephone and fax numbers, contact persons, e‐mail
addresses, as well as on organization resources and capacities, including date of
establishment, information about activities of the organization, professional expertise,
experience, number of employees (information should not exceed three (3) pages);
Proposed schedule with a list of key activities (information should not exceed three (3) pages);
Proposed Methodology for the Completion of Assignment, including a detailed description
of how the proposed approach and methodology meets or exceeds the requirements. All
essential aspects should be addressed in sufficient detail, including a description of the
methodology, instruments, and resources to complete the tasks; implementation timelines,
information on subcontracting (if any). The methodology shall also include details of the
Applicant’s risk mitigation, reporting and monitoring, technical and quality assurance review
mechanisms, and any other comments or information regarding the approach and
methodology (information should not exceed 15 pages).
CVs of the project team members clearly indicating the respective qualification requirements
Examples or summaries of prior successful projects delivered (at least 3 cases clearly
illustrating relevance, the scope of work and results of Contractor’s work);
Copies of analytical reports prepared earlier:
Not less than two (2) on export development and promotion, economic and business
development, MSMEs, market innovation or transformation, shaping value chains, trade and
investment or closely related subjects.
At least two references from previous clients.
EVALUATION CRITERIA
Evaluation and comparison of proposals
19

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

A two-stage procedure is utilized in evaluating the proposals, with the evaluation of the technical proposal
being completed prior to any price proposal being opened and compared. The price proposals will be
opened only for submissions that passed the minimum technical score of 70% (or 490 points) of the
obtainable score of 700 points in the evaluation of the technical proposals.
In the First Stage, the technical proposal is evaluated on the basis of its responsiveness to the Terms of
Reference (TOR) and as per the below Evaluation Criteria.
In the Second Stage, the price proposals of all offerors, who have attained a minimum 70% score in the
technical evaluation, will be reviewed.
Overall evaluation will be completed in accordance with the cumulative analysis scheme, under which the
technical and financial aspects will have pre-assigned weights on 70% and 30% of the overall score,
respectively. The lowest cost financial proposal (out of technically compliant) will be selected as a baseline
and allocated the maximum number of points obtainable for financial part (i.e. 300). All other financial
proposals will receive a number of points inversely proportional to their quoted price; e.g. 300 points x
lowest price / quoted price.
The winning proposal will be the one with the highest number of points after the points obtained in both
technical and financial evaluations, respectively, are added up. The contract will be devoted to the bidder that
submitted the winning proposal.
Technical Evaluation Criteria
Summary of Technical Proposal Evaluation Score
Points
Company / Organization
Forms
Weight
Obtainable
A
B
C
D
1
The expertise of the
35%
245
company/organization submitting the
Proposal
2
Proposed Work Plan, Methodology
35%
245
and Approach
3
Management Structure and
30%
210
Qualification of Key Personnel
Total Score
100%
700
Notes
Technical evaluation forms are provided on the next pages. The maximal points obtainable per each criterion
indicate the relative importance or score weight in the general evaluation process.
Technical Proposal Evaluation Forms:
Form 1. The expertise of the company/organization submitting the proposal
Form 2. Proposed Work Plan, Methodology and Approach
Form 3. Management Structure and Qualification of Key Personnel

20

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

Technical Evaluation Criteria for UNDP ToR

1.1

1.2

1.3

1.4

1.5

1.6

Company / Organization
Technical Proposal Evaluation
Points
Form 1
Obtainable
A
B
C
The expertise of the company/organization submitting the Proposal
Officially registered organization (commercial, non-profit,
non-governmental, educational establishment):
30
{5 years in operation – 15 points, 6-10 years – 17 points,
more than 11 years – 30 points}
At least five (5) years of proven experience with consultancy
assignments, market studies or report writing.

50

{5 years –25 points, 6-10 years – 30 points, 11 years and
more – up to 50 points}
At least three (3) years of proven experience with advisory,
consultancy assignments related to export promotion,
economic development, MSME sector, business
development or closely related fields in Ukraine and
internationally.

{3 years –25 points, 4-6 years – 30 points, 7 years and
more – up to 50 points}
Experience in conducting advisory, consultancy, research
or studies on export development and promotion,
economic and business development, MSMEs, market
innovation or transformation, shaping value chains, trade
and investment or closely related subjects evidenced by
submitted summaries of reports.
{2-3 relevant reports – 30 points, 4-5 relevant reports – 35
points, 5 reports or more – up to 40 points}
Quality of analytical reports (related to 1.4.):
- The relevance of the cases – 10 points.
- Clear and consistent information – 5-15 points.
- Quality visualizations – 5-15 points.
- Quality analysis – 5-15 points.
Experience in working with international organizations
and donor agencies

{no experience – 0 points; availability of experience – 20
points}
The total score on Form 1

50

40

55

20
245

21

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

Technical Proposal Evaluation
Form 2

2.1

2.2

Points Obtainable

Company/Organization
А

B

C

Proposed Work Plan, Methodology and Approach
The relevance of the technical proposal to the objectives
and tasks of the TOR, the quality of the proposed
approach and methodology and its compliance with the
stated goals of the TOR:
The methodology is well-adjusted to the needs of
the ToR and shows an understanding of the
assignment and how the organization will achieve the
TOR, keeping in mind the appropriateness to local
conditions and project environment – 30 points.
Essential aspects are addressed in sufficient
detail, the methods and tools proposed are meeting
the purpose and objectives of the assessment and are
detailed in the proposal – 20 points.
Proposed approach is aimed at designing
comprehensive analytical products, strategies and
plans – 20 points.
The technical proposal is realistic within the
timeframe stated in TOR – 15 points.
Proposed methodology includes details on the
125
technical and quality assurance review mechanisms –
10 points.
The methodology allows establishing an M&E
baseline and includes a brief description of the
mechanisms proposed for reporting to UNDP and
partners, including a reporting schedule - 10 points.
Technical proposal contains explanation whether
any work would be subcontracted, to whom, how
much percentage of the work, the rationale for such,
and the roles of the proposed subcontractors. In case
of subcontracting, special attention is given to
providing a clear picture of the role of each entity and
how everyone will function as a team – 10 points.
Technical proposal describes potential risks for
implementation of the project that may impact
achievement and timely completion of expected
results, and their quality, as well as measures to
mitigate those risks – 10 points.
The proposed methodology:
Includes suggested criteria and procedure for
selecting the partner organization and products for
export under – 25 points.
Demonstrates an understanding of the MSMEs
and BMOs/BSOs, and in particular of distinct groups:
women enterprises, agri-food MSMEs as well as their
85
specifics – 20 points.
Demonstrates an understanding of export
operations and international agri-food market
landscape – 20 points.
Includes a brief preliminary idea on how “first
contact” with the target market may be organized – 20
points.
22

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

2.3

3.1

3.2

3.3

3.4

3.5

3.6

3.7

Work plan and timelines:
A work plan is well elaborated and feasible and
includes visualized work schedule (Gantt Chart or
Project Schedule) – 10 points.
Work plan envisages all the activities and
deliverables outlined in ToR – 10 points.
Key activities in the work plan developed in the
optimal sequence - 10 points.
Work plan includes information on the activities
of each team member (key personnel) and time
allocated for his/her involvement – 10 points.
The total score on Form 2

35

245

Technical Proposal Evaluation
Points
Company / Organization
Form 3
Obtainable
А
B
C
Management Structure and Qualification of Key Personnel
Project Team Leader
At least a Master’s/Specialist’s degree in Business
7
Administration, Marketing, Economics, International Trade,
Management, Social Sciences, Development Studies, Law,
Public Administration, or another related field. A
postgraduate degree in the relevant field is an asset.
{Master’s/Specialist’s degree - 6 points, PhD or above - 7
points}
At least five (5) years of experience in project management
15
and/or leading teams.
{5-8 years– 14 points, 9 years and more – 15 points}
At least three (3) years of proven work experience in advising
30
governments, non-governmental organizations or private
sector on export operations. Experience at the international
level is an asset.
{3-7 years– 13 points, 8 years and more – up to 20 points;
experience at the international level – additional 10 points}
Previous experience of working with agri-food exporters or
10
international agri-food market landscape would be a strong
asset.
{no experience - 0 points, 1-2 years – 2 points, 3 years and
more – up to 10 points}
Excellent writing skills, analytic capacity and ability to
10
synthesize inputs and relevant findings (proven with samples
of at least two (2) prepared or co-authored presentations or
other analytical documents with high-level recommendations,
vision for market development and/or ideas for strategic
direction and plan of action).
{2-3 related publications – 8 points, 3-4 related publications –
9 points; 5 and more related publications–10 points}
Language skills (Fluent Ukrainian/Russian and English - 3
3
points)
Interim score by criteria 3.1-3.6
75
Key Expert 1 (Export Analyst)
At least a Master’s / Specialist’s degree in Business
7
Administration, Public Administration, Marketing, Economics,
International Trade, Law, Finance, Management, Social
23

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

3.8

3.9

3.10

3.11

3.12

3.13

3.14

3.15

3.16

3.17

Sciences, another related field. A postgraduate degree in the
relevant field is an asset.
{Master’s/Specialist’s degree - 6 points, PhD or above - 7
points}
At least five (5) years of proven professional experience in
analytical work, advisory or consultancy with both public and
private sector.
{5-9 years - 15 points, 10 years and more – 20 points}
At least three (3) years of professional experience in export
consultancy.
{3-6 years of experience – 14 points; 7-11 years – 19 points, 12
and more years of experience – up to 25points}
Excellent writing skills, analytic capacity and ability to
synthesize inputs and relevant findings (proven with samples
of at least two (2) prepared or co-authored analytical
documents related to surveys, research or similar).
{2-3 related publications – 7 points, 3-4 related publications –
8 points; 5 and more related publications– up to 10 points}
Language skills
{Fluent Ukrainian and English – 3 points}
Interim score by criteria 3.7-3.11
Key Expert 2 (Branding Expert)
At least Master’s/Specialist’s degree in Social Sciences,
Marketing, Economics, International Trade, Management, or
other related fields. A postgraduate degree in the relevant
field is an asset.
{Bachelor’s degree – 5 points, Master’s/Specialist’s degree – 6
points, PhD or above – 7 points}
At least five (5) years of proven work experience in brand
development and management.
{5-7 years– 15 points, 8-10 years - 20 points, 11 years and
more – up to 30 points}
Experience with the development of brands for export or
brand management and administration at the international
level is an added advantage.
{no experience – 0 points, 1-5 years - 5 points, 6 years and
more – up to 10 points}
Familiarity with agri-food sector, its value chain and
challenges is a strong asset.
{no experience – 0 points, 1-5 years - 5 points, 6 years and
more – up to 10 points}
Language skills
{Fluent Ukrainian and English – 3 points}

20

25

10

3
65
7

30

10

10

3

Interim score by criteria 3.12-3.16

60

Is gender diversity ensured in the team?
{partially ensured – 5 points, close to 50/50% balance - 10
points}
The total score on Form 3

10

210

24

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

Annex 3
FORM FOR SUBMITTING SERVICE PROVIDER’S PROPOSAL6
(This Form must be submitted only using the Service Provider’s Official
Letterhead/Stationery7)

[insert: Location].
[insert: Date]
To:

[insert: Name and Address of UNDP focal point]

Dear Sir/Madam:
We, the undersigned, hereby offer to render the following services to UNDP in conformity
with the requirements defined in the RFP 458RE-2021-UNDP-UKR-RFP-SMERec dated [specify date]
, and all of its attachments, as well as the provisions of the UNDP General Contract Terms and
Conditions:
A.

Qualifications of the Service Provider
BRIEF COMPANY PROFILE

The Service Provider must describe and explain how and why they are the best entity that can
deliver the requirements of UNDP by indicating the following:
Full registration name
Year of foundation
Legal status
Legal address
Actual address
Bank information
VAT payer status
Contact person name
Contact person email
Contact person phone
Company/Organization’s core
activities
Profile – describing the nature of
business, field of expertise, licenses,
certifications, accreditations (If any)
Business Licenses – Registration
Papers, Tax Payment Certification, etc.

EDRPOU, ID tax number. Copies of State registration and
Tax registration should be attached

This serves as a guide to the Service Provider in preparing the Proposal.
Official Letterhead/Stationery must indicate contact details – addresses, email, phone and fax numbers – for verification
purposes
6
7

25

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

Certificates and Accreditation

Please provide contact details of at
least 2 previous partners for
reference
Company is not in the UN Security
Council 1267/1989 List, UN
Procurement Division List or Other
UN Ineligibility List
Other relevant information

B.

Please indicate here applicable including Quality
Certificates, Patent Registrations, Environmental
Sustainability Certificates, etc.
Please attach the signed reference letters

Yes/No (Please choose)

Proposed Methodology for the Completion of Services

The Service Provider must describe how it will address/deliver the demands of the RFP; providing a
detailed description of the essential performance characteristics, reporting conditions and quality
assurance mechanisms that will be put in place, while demonstrating that the proposed methodology will
be appropriate to the local conditions and context of the work.
Proposed Methodology for the Completion of Assignment, including a detailed description of how
the proposed approach and methodology meets or exceeds the requirements. All essential aspects
should be addressed in sufficient detail, including a description of the methodology, instruments, and
resources to complete the tasks; implementation timelines, information on subcontracting (if any).
The methodology shall also include details of the Applicant’s risk mitigation, reporting and
monitoring, technical and quality assurance review mechanisms, and any other comments or
information regarding the approach and methodology (information should not exceed 15 pages).
C.

Qualifications of Key Personnel

The Service Provider must provide :
a) Names and qualifications of the key personnel that will perform the services indicating who
is Team Leader, who are supporting, etc.;
b) CVs demonstrating qualifications must be submitted if required by the RFP; and

26

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

Financial Proposal Form8
The Proposer must prepare the Financial Proposal in an envelope separate from the rest of the RFP as
indicated in the Instruction to Proposers.
The Financial Proposal must provide a detailed cost breakdown. Provide separate figures for each functional
grouping or category.
Any estimates for cost-reimbursable items, such as travel and out-of-pocket expenses, should be listed
separately.
In the case of an equipment component to the service provider, the Price Schedule should include figures for
both purchase and lease/rent options. UNDP reserves the option to either lease/rent or purchase outright the
equipment through the Contractor.
The format shown on the following pages is suggested for use as a guide in preparing the Financial Proposal.
The format includes specific expenditures, which may or may not be required or applicable but are indicated
to serve as examples.
The bidders are requested not to modify/alter lines but keep them in their financial proposal.

A. Cost Breakdown per Deliverables*
№

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

Deliverables as referred to in the TOR

Percentage
of Total Price
(Weight for
payment)

Amount
excl. VAT,
currency

VAT,
currency (if
applicable)

Amount
including
VAT,
currency

Stage 1 Deliverables
Stage 2 Deliverables
Stage 3 Deliverables
Stage 4 Deliverables

Total
*Basis for payment tranches

100%

B. Cost Breakdown by Cost Component:
The Proposers are requested to provide the cost breakdown for the above given prices for each deliverable
based on the following format. UNDP shall use the cost breakdown for the price reasonability assessment
purposes as well as the calculation of price in the event that both parties have agreed to add new
deliverables to the scope of Services.
The bidders are requested not to modify/alter lines but keep it in their financial proposal.
№
Activity/Costs
Unit
Number Cost per Amount,
VAT,
Amount
unit,
currency
currency
includin
currency
excl.
(if
g VAT,
VAT
applicable currency
)
1
Personnel
1.1 Project Team Leader
1
1.2 Key Expert 1 (Export Analyst)
1
1.3 Key Expert 2 (Branding Expert)
1
1.6 Other experts (as required)
2
Administration Costs (if
necessary)

No deletion or modification may be made in this form. Any such deletion or modification may lead to the
rejection of the Proposal.
8

27

DocuSign Envelope ID: 71DB45E0-5354-4C71-9DC5-56A92A83403C

2.1
2.2
3
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
4
4.1
4.2

Communication
(Internet/Phone/etc.)
Other (if any – to define clearly
activities/costs)
Travel and Lodging
Travel costs (tickets)
Accommodation
Daily Allowance
Other (if any - to define clearly
activities/costs)
Other costs (if any - to define
clearly activities/costs)
…
…
Total (please indicate currency)

[Name and Signature of the Service Provider’s
Authorized Person]
[Designation]
[Date]

28

