18 June 2021
INDIVIDUAL CONSULTANT PROCUREMENT NOTICE
for individual consultants and individual consultants assigned by
consulting firms/institutions
Country:

Viet Nam

Description of the
Local Project Manager for Rapid Planning project
assignment:
Period of
assignment/services 135 working days from 6/28/2021 to 12/31/2021
(if applicable):
Duty Station:

Da Nang, Vietnam

Tender reference:

P210609

1. Submissions should be sent by email to: nguyen.ngoc.phuong@undp.org no later
than:
23.59 hrs., 23 June 2021 (Hanoi time)
With subject line:

P2106089– Local Project Manager for Rapid Planning project
Submission received after that date or submission not in conformity with the requirements
specified this document will not be considered.
Note:
-

Any individual employed by a company or institution who would like to submit an offer
in response to this Procurement Notice must do so in their individual capacity, even if
they expect their employers to sign a contract with UNDP.

-

Maximum size per email is 30 MB.

-

Any request for clarification must be sent in writing, or by standard electronic
communication to the address or e-mail indicated above. Procurement Unit – UNDP
Viet Nam will respond in writing or by standard electronic mail and will send written
copies of the response, including an explanation of the query without identifying the
source of inquiry, to all consultants.

-

After submitting proposal, bidder should send notification by email (without
attachment) to: procurement.vn@undp.org informing that the bidder has submitted
proposal. UNDP will not be responsible for the missing of proposal if the bidder does
not send notification email to above address.

-

Female consultants are encouraged to bid for this required service. Preference will
be given to equally technically qualified female consultants.

2. Please find attached the relevant documents:

1

•
•
•
•
•

Term of References………………….............................................................. (Annex I)
Individual Contract & General Conditions………………………………….......(Annex II)
Reimbursable Loan Agreement (for a consultant assigned by a firm)…...… (Annex III)
Letter to UNDP Confirming Interest and Availability …………………………(Annex IV)
Financial Proposal ..………………………………………………………….…. (Annex V)

3. Interested individual consultants must submit the following
documents/information (in English, PDF Format) to demonstrate their qualifications:
a.
b.
-

Technical component:
Detailed CV addressing the experience and work you have done.
Financial offer
Demonstrated good English skill (Sample report in English, Language certificate,…)
Financial proposal (with your signature):
The financial proposal shall specify a total lump sum amount in US dollar for
International Consultant including consultancy fees and all associated costs i.e.
airfares, travel cost, meal, accommodation, tax, insurance etc. – see format of
financial offer in Annex V.

-

Please note that the cost of preparing a proposal and of negotiating a contract,
including any related travel, is not reimbursable as a direct cost of the assignment.

-

If quoted in other currency, prices shall be converted to the above currency at UN
Exchange Rate at the submission deadline.

4. Evaluation
The technical component will be evaluated using the following criteria:
Consultant’s experiences/qualification related to the services
15 years of experience working in the fields of urban planning, public
administration, design or management; exposure to different aspects of urban
1.1
250
planning such as city-wide planning, urban extension plans, urban
redevelopment, land management, landscape and public space design etc
Advanced university degree (Master’s degree or equivalent) in development
250
1.2 studies or other field that is relevant to urban design, planning and
management and social policy in developing countries
Working knowledge and experience in infrastructure and construction 200
management, urban mobility and resilience is required.
1.2
Working experience with international development agencies and in particular
50
the United Nations is an asset
Working experience with practitioner/private sector, academic, and public
100
1.4
sector is required
150
1.5 Demonstrated good English skill
Total

1,000

A two-stage procedure is utilized in evaluating the submissions, with evaluation of the
technical components being completed prior to any price proposals being opened and
compared.
The price proposal will be opened only for submissions that passed the minimum technical
score of 70% of the obtainable score of 1000 points in the evaluation of the technical
component. The technical component is evaluated on the basis of its responsiveness to the
Term of Reference (TOR). Maximum 1000 points will be given to the lowest offer and the
other financial proposals will receive the points inversely proportional to their financial offers.
2

i.e. Sf = 1000 x Fm / F, in which Sf is the financial score, Fm is the lowest price and F the
price of the submission under consideration.
The weight of technical points is 70% and financial points is 30%.
Submission obtaining the highest weighted points (technical points + financial points) will be
selected subject to positive reference checks on the consultant’s past performance.
Interview with the candidates may be held if deemed necessary.
5. Contract
“Lump-sum” Individual Contract will be applied for freelance consultant (Annex II)
“Lump-sum” RLA will be applied for consultant assigned by firm/institution/organization (Annex
III)
Documents required before contract signing:
-

-

-

-

International consultant whose work involves travel is required to complete the courses
on BSAFE which the new online security awareness training is and submit certificate to
UNDP before contract issuance.
Note: In order to access the courses, please go to the following link:
https://training.dss.un.org
The training course takes around 3-4 hours to complete.
Full medical examination and Statement of Fitness to work for consultants from and
above 65 years of age and involve travel. (This is not a requirement for RLA
contracts).
Release letter in case the selected consultant is government official.

6. Payment
No.

Deliverables as indicated in Section IV

Due Date

Payment
Amount

By 31 July 2021

20%

By 31 August
2021

16%

By 30 September
2021

16%

By 31 October
2021

16%

By 30 November
2021

16%

By 31 December
2021

16%

1st installment upon submission and clearance of following output:
1

Output 1: Monthly report on progress of assigned tasks

2nd installment upon submission and clearance of following output:
2

Output 2: Monthly report on progress of assigned tasks

3rd installment upon submission and clearance of following output:
3

Output 3: Monthly report on progress of assigned tasks

4th installment upon submission and clearance of following output:
4

Output 4: Monthly report on progress of assigned tasks

5th installment upon submission and clearance of following output:
5

Output 5: Monthly report on progress of assigned tasks

6th /Final installment upon submission and clearance of following output:
6

Output 6: Final report on the completion of assigned tasks with all
delivered outputs

7. Your proposals are received on the basis that you fully understand and accept
these terms and conditions.

3

TERMS OF REFERENCE
IN DI VI DU AL CO N SU L TAN T
Ref#: Enter Ref #

Name of service:

Individual Contract (IC)

Project:

Rapid Planning – Sustainable Ỉnastructure and Environmental and Resource
Management for Highly Dynamic Metropolises

Reporting to:

Habitat Programme Manager and Project Management Officer (UN-Habitat HQ)

Duty Station:

Da Nang

Duration of
Assignment:

6 months and 3 working days

Start Date:

6/28/2021

Travel Required:

No

End Date:

12/31/2021

BACKGROUND & PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The United Nations Human Settlements Programme, UN-Habitat, is the UN agency for human settlements. It is
mandated by the UN General Assembly to promote socially and environmentally sustainable towns and cities
with the goal of providing adequate shelter for all.
The project “Rapid Planning – Sustainable Infrastructure and Environmental and Resource Management for
Highly Dynamic Metropolises” is implemented until 31 December 2021. UN-Habitat is partnering with a
consortium of research institution for the implementation of the Rapid Planning project. The project has the
objective to develop and test an integrated, trans-sectoral urban planning methodology for supply and disposal
infrastructure. The project is implemented in three case cities, including Da Nang (Vietnam).
The regular project implementation period for the Rapid Planning Project has ended on June 30, 2019. The
project has subsequently been extended until December 31, 2021, with the aim completing the following tasks:
1) Task 5.8 of WP 5: Aiming at consolidation of the Rapid Planning methodological approach;
2) Task 12.6 of WP 12: Aiming at the knowledge transfer in Vietnam, e.g.to the city of Tam Ky (Quang
Nam Province);
3) Task 12.8 of WP 12: Aiming at the development of a pipeline of application projects, where the Rapid
Planning methodology is going to be applied; this also includes the development of the Emplement!
Project in Vietnam;
4) Task 13.2 of WP 13: Aiming at the co-development of outreach material and publications.

OBJECTIVES
UN-Habitat’s role in the project includes facilitating the local project implementation by means of project offices
that are established in each case city.
The RP Local Project Manager will continue to be handling the day-to-day coordination of the implementation of
the Rapid Planning project and will support the development of the Emplement! Project at the local level in Da
Nang, in Tam Ky and in Quang Nam province, and is also going to contribute to implementing the abovementioned tasks in as far as they are relevant to the Vietnam chapter of the Rapid Planning project.

4

The RP Local Project Manager will work under the direct supervision of the Project Management Officer (Urban
Planning, Finance and Economy Section, UN-Habitat HQ), in liaison with the Habitat Programme Manager (HPM)
Vietnam and Project Operations Assistant.

SCOPE OF WORK
The successful consultant will be expected to be responsible for the following:
Tasks for Local Project Manager with regard to emplement! activities
- Tam Ky & Quang Nam Province contact liaison: (i) Search for designated contacts from TK & QN and build the
network/contact list, and (ii) Follow and correct account for money transfer to Tam Ky
- Cu De Valley pre-works: (i) Collection of available information and documents in relation with planning
processes in Cu De River Valley; (ii) Identification and recording of all villages, communes; (iii) Identification of
key stakeholders and decision takers on all necessary levels; and (iv) Documentation for regular photo update
- Site search for fruit valorisation center project location: (i) Potential locations (building and plot with space for oil
pressing, distillery, mash fermentation, dryer) in Cu De valley, Da Nang or Quang Nam province; and (ii)
Research on electricity access of potential location/ Water quality of area and potential location
- Workshop on drying of agricultural products: Work with University Hohenheim (Ziba/ Farah) on conducting
workshop.
- Identification of potential service contractors: Search for construction companies, craftsmen for Cu De river
valley and fruit valorisation center pilot projects- Liaison with local project partners: Build up the network with local
partners and develop outline for potential connection opportunities (e.d GEF project, DAU,…)
Tasks for Local Project Manager with regard to Rapid Planning project activities
- Support of Task 12.6 of WP 12: Aiming at the knowledge transfer in Vietnam, e.g. to the city of Tam Ky: (i) Work
with project team for planning and supporting 2 mission and (ii) Support in the implementation of a training
workshop (1 training)
- Support of Task 13.2 of WP 13: Aiming at the co-development of outreach material and publications.: (i)
Cooperate with Consortium's support to develop outreach material and publications and (ii) materials preparation
process

DELIVERABLES & IMPLEMENTATION TIMELINE
No.

Deliverable

Estimated days
to complete

Target
due date

1

Output 1: Report on progress of assigned tasks in the 1 st
working month

25 days

7/31/2021

2

Output 2: Report on progress of assigned tasks in the 2 nd
working month

22 days

8/31/2021

3

Output 3: Report on progress of assigned tasks in the 3 rd
working month

22 days

9/30/2021

4

Output 4: Report on progress of assigned tasks in the 4 th
working month

21 days

10/31/2021

5

Output 5: Report on progress of assigned tasks in the 5th
working month

22 days

11/30/2021

6

Output 6: Final report on the completion of assigned tasks with
all delivered outputs

23 days

12/31/2021

DURATION OF ASSIGNMENT, DUTY STATION & EXPECTED
PLACES OF TRAVEL
5

Estimated number of working days: 135 working days from 6/28/2021 to 12/31/2021.
Duty station: Da Nang, Vietnam
Expected places of travel: Travel costs if required and upon agreement with UNHABITAT will be paid
separately by UNHABITAT following UN-EU Cost Norms

PROVISION OF MONITORING & PROGRESS CONTROL
The RP Local Project Manager will work under the direct supervision of the Project Management Officer
(Urban Planning, Finance and Economy Section, UN-Habitat HQ), in liaison with the Habitat Programme
Manager (HPM) Vietnam and Project Operations Assistant

The outputs production will be documented through interim reports on progress produced for every task
and submitted every month (for interim payments). Final report to be submitted at the end of consultancy,
summarizing the work done, presenting all outputs in PDF format, endorsed by the RP Project
Management Officer and certified by the HPM Vietnam

Logistical support for the projects is provided by UN-Habitat Country Office in Hanoi.

The consultant will liaise and interact with:
Section managers and senior professionals in other branches of the agency
Senior professionals of regional offices and UN-Habitat Programme Managers at country level
Staffs within work sections/branch
Officials on global, national, local government and private sector
Academia, universities, and research institutionsOther UN agencies
Donors, development organizations, development banks

ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT & REFERENCE DOCUMENTS
Administrative Support
N/A

Reference Documents
N/A

DEGREE OF EXPERTISE & QUALIFICATIONS
Qualifications

Advanced university degree (Master’s degree or equivalent) in development
studies or other field that is relevant to urban design, planning and management
and social policy in developing countries. A first-level university degree in
combination with qualifying experience may be accepted in lieu of the advanced
university degree.

Relevant Professional
Experience

15 years of experience working in the fields of urban planning, public
administration, design or management; exposure to different aspects of urban
planning such as city-wide planning, urban extension plans, urban
redevelopment, land management, landscape and public space design etc. A
combination of practitioner/private sector, academic, and public sector
experience would be considered an asset.

6

Management: Ability to manage smaller project teams, divide workload and
sustain efficiency
Teamwork: Ability to work collaboratively with colleagues to achieve agreed
goals.

Other Competencies

Planning and Organizing: Ability to observe deadlines and achieve set
goals. Ability to work and deliver under pressure
Language Requirements

For this consultancy, fluency in oral and written English and in Vietnamese is
required.

PAYMENT TERMS
No.

1

Due Date

Payment
Amount

By 31 July 2021

20%

By 31 August 2021

16%

By 30 September 2021

16%

By 31 October 2021

16%

By 30 November 2021

16%

By 31 December 2021

16%

Deliverables as indicated in Section IV
1st installment upon submission and clearance of following
output:
Output 1: Monthly report on progress of assigned tasks

2

2nd installment upon submission and clearance of following
output:
Output 2: Monthly report on progress of assigned tasks

3

3rd installment upon submission and clearance of following
output:
Output 3: Monthly report on progress of assigned tasks

4

4th installment upon submission and clearance of following
output:
Output 4: Monthly report on progress of assigned tasks

5

5th installment upon submission and clearance of following
output:
Output 5: Monthly report on progress of assigned tasks
6th /Final installment upon submission and clearance of
following output:

6

Output 6: Final report on the completion of assigned tasks
with all delivered outputs

CONSULTANT PRESENCE REQUIRED ON DUTY STATION
☐ NONE

☐ PARTIAL

☐ INTERMITTENT

☒ FULL-TIME

EVALUATION CRITERIA
No.

1

Requirement

Points

15 years of experience working in the fields of urban planning, public
administration, design or management; exposure to different aspects of
urban planning such as city-wide planning, urban extension plans, urban
redevelopment, land management, landscape and public space design

7

250

etc
Advanced

university degree (Master’s degree or equivalent) in
development studies or other field that is relevant to urban design,
planning and management and social policy in developing countries

250

Working knowledge and experience in infrastructure and construction
management, urban mobility and resilience is required.

200

Working experience with international development agencies and in
particular the United Nations is an asset

50

4

Working experience with practitioner/private sector, academic, and
public sector is required

100

5

Demonstrated good English skill

150

2

3

Total

1,000

Criteria for Evaluation of Proposal
Offers will be evaluated according to the Combined Scoring method – where the educational background and
experience on similar assignments will be weighted at 70% and the financial proposal will weigh at 30% of the
total scoring.
The applicant receiving the Highest Combined Score and meeting other requirements in the Procurement Notice
will be awarded the contract.

Documents for Submission
Applicants will be expected to include the following along with their application:

1.

Core Documents
Letter of Confirmation of Interest and Availability using the template provided by UNDP;
Current and complete CV in English;
Financial offer using the standard UNDP template.

8

ANNEX IV
OFFEROR’S LETTER TO UNDP
CONFIRMING INTEREST AND AVAILABILITY
FOR THE INDIVIDUAL CONTRACTOR (IC) ASSIGNMENT
Date

(Name of Resident Representative/Bureau Director)
United Nations Development Programme
(Specify complete office address)
Dear Sir/Madam:
I hereby declare that:
A) I have read, understood and hereby accept the Terms of Reference describing the duties
and responsibilities of [indicate title of assignment] under the [state project title];
B) I have also read, understood and hereby accept UNDP’s General Conditions of Contract
for the Services of the Individual Contractors;
C) I hereby propose my services and I confirm my interest in performing the assignment
through the submission of my CV which I have duly signed and attached hereto as
Annex 1;
D) In compliance with the requirements of the Terms of Reference, I hereby confirm that I
am available for the entire duration of the assignment, and I shall perform the services in
the manner described in my proposed approach/methodology which I have attached
hereto as Annex 3 [delete this item if the TOR does not require submission of this
document];
E) I hereby propose to complete the services based on the following payment rate: [please
check the box corresponding to the preferred option]:




An all-inclusive daily fee of [state amount in words and in numbers indicating
currency]
A total lump sum of [state amount in words and in numbers, indicating exact
currency], payable in the manner described in the Terms of Reference.

F) For your evaluation, the breakdown of the abovementioned all-inclusive amount is
attached hereto as Annex V;
G) I recognize that the payment of the abovementioned amounts due to me shall be based
on my delivery of outputs within the timeframe specified in the TOR, which shall be
subject to UNDP's review, acceptance and payment certification procedures;
H) This offer shall remain valid for a total period of ___________ days [minimum of 90 days]
after the submission deadline;

9

I) I confirm that I have no first degree relative (mother, father, son, daughter,
spouse/partner, brother or sister) currently employed with any UN agency or office
[disclose the name of the relative, the UN office employing the relative, and the
relationship if, any such relationship exists];
J) If I am selected for this assignment, I shall [please check the appropriate box]:




Sign an Individual Contract with UNDP;
Request my employer [state name of company/organization/institution] to sign
with UNDP a Reimbursable Loan Agreement (RLA), for and on my behalf. The
contact person and details of my employer for this purpose are as follows:

K) I hereby confirm that [check all that applies]:




At the time of this submission, I have no active Individual Contract or any form of
engagement with any Business Unit of UNDP;
I am currently engaged with UNDP and/or other entities for the following work:

Assignment



Contract
Type

UNDP Business
Unit / Name of
Institution/Company

Contract
Duration

Contract
Amount

I am also anticipating conclusion of the following work from UNDP and/or other
entities for which I have submitted a proposal:

Assignment

Name of
Institution/
Company

Contract
Type

Contract
Duration

Contract
Amount

L) I fully understand and recognize that UNDP is not bound to accept this proposal, and I
also understand and accept that I shall bear all costs associated with its preparation and
submission and that UNDP will in no case be responsible or liable for those costs,
regardless of the conduct or outcome of the selection process.
M) If you are a former staff member of the United Nations recently separated, please
add this section to your letter:
I hereby confirm that I have complied with the
minimum break in service required before I can be eligible for an Individual Contract.
N) I also fully understand that, if I am engaged as an Individual Contractor, I have no
expectations nor entitlements whatsoever to be re-instated or re-employed as a staff
member.
O) Are any of your relatives employed by UNDP, any other UN organization or any other

public international organization?
YES

NO

If the answer is "yes", give the following information:

10

Name

P)

Relationship

Name of International
Organization

Do you have any objections to our making enquiries of your present employer?
YES

NO

Q) Are you now, or have you ever been a permanent civil servant in your government’s

employ?
YES

NO

If answer is "yes", WHEN?

R) REFERENCES: List three persons, not related to you, who are familiar with your

character and qualifications.
Full Name

Full Address

Business or Occupation

S) Have you been arrested, indicted, or summoned into court as a defendant in a criminal

proceeding, or convicted, fined or imprisoned for the violation of any law (excluding
minor traffic violations)?
YES

NO

If "yes", give full particulars of each case in an attached

statement.
I certify that the statements made by me in answer to the foregoing questions are true,
complete and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I understand that any
misrepresentation or material omission made on a Personal History form or other document
requested by the Organization may result in the termination of the service contract or special
services agreement without notice.

DATE:

SIGNATURE:

NB. You will be requested to supply documentary evidence which support the statements
you have made above. Do not, however, send any documentary evidence until you have
been asked to do so and, in any event, do not submit the original texts of references or
testimonials unless they have been obtained for the sole use of UNDP.

Annexes [please check all that applies]:

 CV

shall include Education/Qualification, Processional Certification, Employment
Records /Experience

 Breakdown of Costs Supporting the Final All-Inclusive Price as per Template

11

GUIDELINES FOR CV PREPARATION
WE REQUEST THAT YOU USE THE FOLLOWING CHECKLIST WHEN
PREPARING
Your CV:
Limit the CV to 3 or 4 pages
NAME (First, Middle Initial, Family Name)
Address:
City, Region/State, Province, Postal Code
Country:
Telephone, Facsimile and other numbers
Internet Address:
Sex, Date of Birth, Nationality, Other Citizenship, Marital Status
Company associated with (if applicable, include company name, contact person and
phone number)
SUMMARY OF EXPERTISE
Field(s) of expertise (be as specific as possible)
Particular development competencies-thematic (e.g. Women in Development, NGOs,
Privatization, Sustainable Development) or technical (e.g. project design/evaluation)
Credentials/education/training, relevant to the expertise
LANGUAGES
Mother Tongue:
Indicate written and verbal proficiency of your English:
SUMMARY OF RELEVANT WORK EXPERIENCE
Provide an overview of work history in reverse chronological order. Provide dates,
your function/title, the area of work and the major accomplishments include
honorarium/salary. References (name and contact email address) must be provided
for each assignment undertaken by the consultant that UNDP may contact.
UN SYSTEM EXPERIENCE
If applicable, provide details of work done for the UN System including WB. Provide
names and email address of UN staff who were your main contacts. Include
honorarium/salary.
UNIVERSITY DEGREES
List the degree(s) and major area of study. Indicate the date (in reverse
chronological order) and the name of the institution where the degree was obtained.
PUBLICATIONS
Provide total number of Publications and list the titles of 5 major publications (if any)
MISCELLANEOUS
Indicate the minimum and maximum time you would be available for consultancies
and any other factors, including impediments or restrictions that should be taken into
account in connection with your work with this assignment.

12

Annex V
FINANCIAL OFFER
Having examined the Solicitation Documents, I, the undersigned, offer to provide all the services in
the TOR for the sum of ……US$
This is a lump sum offer covering all associated costs for the required service (fee, meal,
accommodation, travel, taxes etc).

Cost breakdown:
No.
1
2
2.1
2.2
2.3

2.5
2.6

Description
Consultancy fee (daily rate)
Out of pocket expenses
Travel
Per diem
Full medical examination and
Statement of Fitness to work
for consultants from and above
65 years of age and involve
travel – (required before
issuing contract). *
Others (pls. specify)…….
VAT** if applicable (in case
your company signs the
contract)
TOTAL

Quantity

Unit Rate (US$)

Total

* Individual Consultants/Contractors who are over 62 years of age with assignments that require travel and are
required, at their own cost, to undergo a full medical examination including x-rays and obtaining medical
clearance from an UN-approved doctor prior to taking up their assignment.
** Individual Consultants/Contractors who request their employer to sign a Reimbursable Loan Agreement (RLA)
with UNDP for their behalves are reminded to add the Value Added Tax into the total lump sum of the Financial
Offer if applicable.

I undertake, if my proposal is accepted, to commence and complete delivery of all services specified
in the contract within the time frame stipulated.
I agree to abide by this proposal for a period of 120 days from the submission deadline of the
proposals.

Dated this day /month

of year

Signature

(The costs should only cover the requirements identified in the Terms of Reference
(TOR)
Travel expenses are not required if the consultant will be working from home).

13

