1. The MMX instructions support only
a) character data type
b) float data type
c) integer data type
d) string data type
c
2. For single precision floating point numbers, the SSE instructions are
a) MMX instructions
b) SIMD instructions
c) Floating point executions
d) None
b
3. The feature of SSE among the following is
a) operate on four 32-bit floating points
b) register size is of 128 bits
c) no switching from one mode to other
d) all of the mentioned
d
1. SSE instructions are SIMD instructions for single precision floating point numbers.
2. They operate on four 32-bit floating points.
3. The register size is of 128 bits
4. No necessity to switch from one mode to other.
4. The new instructions that are added in SSE for floating point operations are of
a) 72
b) 50
c) 25
d) 8
b
5. The SSE instructions can operate on
a) packed data
b) unpacked data
c) dynamic data
d) all of the mentioned
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Which of the following group is not of SSE instructions?
a) jump or branch group of instruction
b) logic and comparison group of instruction
c) shuffle instructions
d) all of the mentioned
d
1. Data transfer instructions
2. Arithmetic, logic and comparison group of instruction
3. shuffle instructions
4. Cacheability instructions.
7. Which of the following is true about SSE2 instructions in Pentium III and Pentium 4?
a) SSE increases the accuracy of double precision floating point operations
b) SSE supports new formats of packed data
c) SSE increases the speed of manipulation of SIMD integer operations
d) All of the mentioned
d
8. The data type that the SSE2 instructions doesn’t support is
a) single precision floating points
b) double precision floating points
c) single and double precision floating points
d) none of the mentioned
d
9. The additional instructions of SSE3 over SSE2 contains
a) video encoding
b) complex arithmetic operation
c) thread synchronization
d) all of the mentioned
d
i. floating point to integer conversion
ii. complex arithmetic operation
iii. video encoding
iv. SIMD floating point operations using array of structures format
v. thread synchronization.
10. The unit that may acts as an interface between the Front end and the Out of order execution engine in the pipeline flow is
a) micro-op queue
b) micro-op stack
c) micro-ops
d) none
a
11. The verification of the logic using formal mathematical tools is called
a) arithmetic verification
b) formal verification
c) mathematical verification
d) logical verification
b
12. The formal verification is important for
a) developing the tools
b) developing the methodologies
c) to detect the bugs in design
d) all of the mentioned
d
13. By using the techniques of formal verification, one can detect the logical bugs of
a) more than 50
b) less than 50
c) more than 100
d) less than 100
c
14. The modern processors are designed to achieve
a) high speed
b) operate at low operating voltage
c) uses cooling technology
d) all of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice basic questions and answers on all areas of Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Hyperthreading In Pentium» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Hybrid Architecture -RISC and CISC Convergence, Advantages of RISC, Design Issues of RISC Processors -1 
