1. In direct memory access mode, the data transfer takes place
a) directly
b) indirectly
c) directly and indirectly
d) none of the mentioned
a
2. In 8257 (DMA), each of the four channels has
a) a pair of two 8-bit registers
b) a pair of two 16-bit registers
c) one 16-bit register
d) one 8-bit register
b
3. The common register(s) for all the four channels of 8257 is
a) DMA address register
b) Terminal count register
c) Mode set register and status register
d) None of the mentioned
c
4. In 8257 register format, the selected channel is disabled after the terminal count condition is reached when
a) Auto load is set
b) Auto load is reset
c) TC STOP bit is reset
d) TC STOP bit is set
d
5. The IOR (active low) input line acts as output in
a) slave mode
b) master mode
c) master and slave mode
d) none of the mentioned
b
6. The IOW (active low) in its slave mode loads the contents of a data bus to
a) 8-bit mode register
b) upper/lower byte of 16-bit DMA address register
c) terminal count register
d) all of the mentioned
d
7. The pin that disables all the DMA channels by clearing the mode registers is
a) MARK
b) CLEAR
c) RESET
d) READY
c
8. The pin that requests the access of the system bus is
a) HLDA
b) HRQ
c) ADSTB
d) None of the mentioned
b
9. The pin that is used to write data to the addressed memory location, during DMA write operation is
a) MEMR (active low)
b) AEN
c) MEMW (active low)
d) IOW (active low)
c
10. The pin that strobes the higher byte of the memory address, generated by the DMA controller into the latches is
a) AEN
b) ADSTB
c) TC
d) None of the mentioned
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Programmable Communication Interface 8251 USART» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – DMA Transfers and Operations 
