1. DAC (Digital to Analog Converter) finds application in
a) digitally controlled gains
b) motor speed controls
c) programmable gain amplifiers
d) all of the mentioned
d
2. To save the DAC from negative transients the device connected between OUT1 and OUT2 of AD 7523 is
a) p-n junction diode
b) Zener
c) FET
d) BJT (Bipolar Junction transistor)
b
3. An operational amplifier connected to the output of AD 7523 is used
a) to convert current output to output voltage
b) to provide additional driving capability
c) as current-to-voltage converter
d) all of the mentioned
d
4. The DAC 0800 has a settling time of
a) 100 milliseconds
b) 100 microseconds
c) 50 milliseconds
d) 50 microseconds
a
5. The device that is used to obtain an accurate position control of rotating shafts in terms of steps is
a) DC motor
b) AC motor
c) Stepper motor
d) Servo motor
c
6. The internal schematic of a typical stepper motor has
a) 1 winding
b) 2 windings
c) 3 windings
d) 4 windings
d
7. The number of pulses required for one complete rotation of the shaft of the stepper motor is equal to the
a) number of internal teeth on a rotor
b) number of internal teeth on a stator
c) number of internal teeth on a rotor and stator
d) number of external teeth on a stator
a
8. A simple scheme for rotating the shaft of a stepper motor is called
a) rotating scheme
b) shaft scheme
c) wave scheme
d) none
c
9. The firing angles of thyristors are controlled by
a) pulse generating circuits
b) relaxation oscillators
c) microprocessor
d) all of the mentioned
d
10. The Isolation transformers are generally used for
a) protecting low power circuit
b) isolation
c) protecting low power circuit and isolation
d) none
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors for Experienced people, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Interfacing Analog to Digital Data Converters» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Programmable Interval Timer 8254 
