1. The serial communication is
a) cheaper communication
b) requires less number of conductors
c) slow process of communication
d) all of the mentioned
d
2. The serial communication is used for
a) short distance communication
b) long distance communication
c) short and long distance communication
d) communication for a certain range of distance
b
3. The mcs 51 architecture supports
a) serial transmission and reception
b) simultaneous transmission and reception
c) transmission and reception of data using serial communication interface
d) all of the mentioned
d
4. The number of bits transmitted or received per second is defined as
a) transmission rate
b) reception rate
c) transceiver rate
d) baud rate
d
5. The task of converting the byte into serial form and transmitting it bit by bit along with start, stop and parity bits is carried out by
a) reception unit
b) serial communication unit
c) transmission unit
d) all of the mentioned
c
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. The transmission unit does not require assistance from processor if once a byte for transmission is written to
a) SCON register
b) SBUF register
c) SFR address
d) Any of the mentioned
b
7. The common unit shared by the receiver unit and transmission unit of serial communication unit is
a) SCON(Serial Port Control) Register
b) SBUF(Serial Buffer) register
c) 8-bit serial data interface
d) All of the mentioned
d
8. During serial reception, the buffer that receives serial bits and converts to a byte is
a) receive buffer 0
b) receive buffer 1
c) receive buffer 2
d) none
b
9. If SM0=1, SM1=0, then the transceiver selected is
a) 8-bit synchronous
b) 9-bit synchronous
c) 8-bit asynchronous
d) 9-bit asynchronous
d
10. If the microcontroller is expected to communicate in a multiprocessor system, then the required condition is
a) SM0 is set
b) SM1 is set
c) SM2 is set
d) REN is set
c
11. In mode 2, the baud rate depends only on
a) SMOD bit
b) SCON bit
c) Oscillator clock frequency
d) SMOD bit and oscillator clock frequency
d
12. The mode that offers the most secured parity enabled data communication at lower baud rates is
a) mode 2
b) mode 1
c) mode 0
d) all of the mentioned
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Interrupt Structure of 8051» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Power Control Register 
