1. The interconnection topologies are implemented using _________ as a node.
a) control unit
b) microprocessor
c) processing unit
d) microprocessor or processing unit
d
2. The feature of the multi-microprocessor architecture is
a) task dependent
b) single bus provider for many processors
c) design is for a specific task
d) all of the mentioned
d
3. The main objective in building the multi-microprocessor is
a) greater throughput
b) enhanced fault tolerance
c) greater throughput and enhanced fault tolerance
d) none of the mentioned
c
4. An interface between the user or an application program, and the system resources are
a) microprocessor
b) microcontroller
c) multi-microprocessor
d) operating system
d
5. An operating system provides
a) hardware and software resource management
b) input/output management
c) memory management
d) all of the mentioned
d
6. Distributed systems are designed to run
a) serial process
b) parallel process
c) serial and parallel process
d) none of the mentioned
d
7. A distributed operating system must provide a mechanism for
a) intraprocessor communication
b) intraprocess and intraprocessor communication
c) interprocess and interprocessor communication
d) interprocessor communication
c
8. A multiprocessor operating system should perform
a) a mechanism to split a task into concurrent subtasks
b) optimize the system performance
c) handling structural or architectural changes
d) all of the mentioned
d
9. An operating system must possess
a) process-processor allocation strategies
b) mechanism to collect results of subtasks
c) software to improve overall performance
d) all of the mentioned
d
10. A multiprocessor operating system must take care of
a) authorized data access and data protection
b) unauthorized data access and data protection
c) authorized data access
d) data protection
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Interconnection Topologies» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Numeric Processor 8087 -1 
