1. By using privilege mechanism the protection from unauthorized accesses is done to
a) operating system
b) interrupt handlers
c) system software
d) all of the mentioned
d
2. The task privilege level at the instant of execution is called
a) Descriptor privilege level (DPL)
b) Current privilege level (CPL)
c) Effective privilege level (EPL)
d) None of the mentioned
b
3. Once the CPL is selected, it can be changed by
a) hold
b) transferring control using system descriptors
c) transferring control using gate descriptors
d) transferring control using interrupt descriptors
c
4. The data segments defined in GDT (global descriptor table) and the LDT (local descriptor table) can be accessed by a task with
a) privilege level 0
b) privilege level 1
c) privilege level 2
d) privilege level 3
a
5. A task with privilege level 0, doesn’t refer to all the lower level privilege descriptors in
a) GDT (global descriptor table)
b) LDT (local descriptor table)
c) IDT (interrupt descriptor table)
d) None of the mentioned
b
6. The selector RPL that uses a less trusted privilege than the current privilege level for further use is known as
a) Least task privilege level
b) Descriptor privilege level
c) Effective privilege level
d) None of the mentioned
c
7. The effective privilege level is
a) maximum numeric of RPL and CPL
b) minimum privilege of RPL and CPL
c) numeric minimum and privilege maximum of RPL and CPL
d) none of the mentioned
c
8. The task requesting an access to a descriptor is allowed to access after checking the
a) type of descriptor
b) privilege level
c) type of descriptor and privilege level
d) corresponding segment
c
9. A CALL instruction can reference only a code segment descriptor with
a) DPL less privilege than CPL
b) DPL equal privilege to CPL
c) DPL greater privilege than CPL
d) All of the mentioned
b
10. The RPL of a selector that referred to the code descriptor must have
a) less privilege than CPL
b) greater privilege than CPL
c) equal privilege than CPL
d) any privilege regarding CPL
c
11. The instruction that refers to only code segment descriptors with DPL equal to or less than the task CPL is
a) CALL
b) IRET
c) ESC
d) RET and IRET
d
12. When a JUMP instruction references a Task State Segment(TSS) descriptor, then DPL must be
a) equally privileged as CPL
b) greater or equally privileged than CPL
c) less or equally privileged than CPL
d) less privileged than CPL
c
13. The data segment access refers to
a) loading DS
b) loading ES
c) loading SS
d) all of the mentioned
d
14. An exception is generated when
a) privilege test is negative
b) an improper segment is referenced
c) referenced segment is not present in physical memory
d) all of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Protected Virtual Address Mode (PVAM) -2» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Protection 
