1. The number of hardware interrupts that the processor 8085 consists of is
a) 1
b) 3
c) 5
d) 7
c
2. The register that stores all the interrupt requests in it in order to serve them one by one on a priority basis is
a) Interrupt Request Register
b) In-Service Register
c) Priority resolver
d) Interrupt Mask Register
a
3. The register that stores the bits required to mask the interrupt inputs is
a) In-service register
b) Priority resolver
c) Interrupt Mask register
d) None
c
4. The interrupt control logic
a) manages interrupts
b) manages interrupt acknowledge signals
c) accepts interrupt acknowledge signal
d) all of the mentioned
d
5. In a cascaded mode, the number of vectored interrupts provided by 8259A is
a) 4
b) 8
c) 16
d) 64
d
6. When the PS(active low)/EN(active low) pin of 8259A used in buffered mode, then it can be used as a
a) input to designate chip is master or slave
b) buffer enable
c) buffer disable
d) none
b
7. Once the ICW1 is loaded, then the initialization procedure involves
a) edge sense circuit is reset
b) IMR is cleared
c) slave mode address is set to 7
d) all of the mentioned
d
i) edge sense circuit is reset.
ii) IMR is cleared.
iii) IR7 input is assigned the lowest priority.
iv) slave mode address is set to 7
v) special mask mode is cleared and the status read is set to IRR.
8. When non-specific EOI command is issued to 8259A it will automatically
a) set the ISR
b) reset the ISR
c) set the INTR
d) reset the INTR
b
9. In the application where all the interrupting devices are of equal priority, the mode used is
a) Automatic rotation
b) Automatic EOI mode
c) Specific rotation
d) EOI
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Programmable Interval Timer 8254» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – the Keyboard/Display Controller 8279 
