1. Which of the following is a resource sharing strategy that had been investigated by the developers?
a) partitioned resources
b) threshold sharing
c) full sharing
d) all of the mentioned
d
1. Partitioned resources
2. Threshold sharing
3. Full sharing.
2. The feature of hyperthreading is
a) simultaneous multithreading
b) switching is not required
c) effective use of processor resources
d) all of the mentioned
d
3. Each logical processor maintains a set of architecture state which consists of
a) general purpose registers
b) machine state register
c) advanced programmed interrupt controller
d) all of the mentioned
d
1. Registers including the general purpose registers
2. The control register
3. Advanced programmed interrupt controller
4. Machine state register.
4. A logical processor may be temporarily stalled for
a) including servicing cache misses
b) handling branch mispredictions
c) waiting for results of previous instructions
d) all of the mentioned
d
5. The hyperthreading technology automatically involves the
a) decrease of die area
b) increase of die area
c) decrease of die area to half
d) none
b
6. The instruction that is used when either of the logical processors is idle is
a) HOLD
b) HLDA
c) HALT
d) NONE
c
7. The mode that is available when there is only one software thread to execute is
a) single task mode
b) multi task mode
c) single task and multi task mode
d) dual task mode
c
8. The HALT instruction is a privileged instruction that can be only used by
a) execution unit
b) operating system
c) control unit
d) memory unit
b
9. When the operating system uses HALT instruction on a processor which supports multithreading, the operation moves from
a) Single task to multi task mode
b) ST1 to ST0
c) Multi task to single task mode
d) None
c
10. The Xeon TM processor on which hyperthreading technology was first implemented consists of
a) one logical processor per physical processor
b) two logical processor per physical processor
c) three logical processor per physical processor
d) zero logical processor per physical processor
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Rapid Execution Module, Memory Subsystem,  Hyperthreading Technology» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Extended Instruction Set In Advanced Pentium Processors,  Formal Verification 
