1. Which of the following is not an instruction of 8051 instructions?
a) arithmetic instructions
b) boolean instructions
c) logical instructions
d) none
d
1. Data transfer instructions
2. Arithmetic instructions
3. Logical instructions
4. Boolean instructions
5. Control transfer instructions.
2. The operations performed by data transfer instructions are on
a) bit data
b) byte data
c) 16-bit data
d) all of the mentioned
d
3. Which of the following is true while executing data transfer instructions?
a) program counter is not accessible
b) restricted bit-transfer operations are allowed
c) both operands can be direct/indirect register operands
d) all of the mentioned
c
1. Program counter is not accessible.
2. Restricted bit-transfer operations are allowed.
3. Both operands can be direct/indirect register operands.
4. BOth operands can be internal direct data memory operands.
4. The logical instruction that affects the carry flag during its execution is
a) XRL A;
b) ANL A;
c) ORL A;
d) RLC A;
d
5. The instruction that is used to complement or invert the bit of a bit addressable SFR is
a) CLR C
b) CPL C
c) CPL Bit
d) ANL Bit
c
6. The instructions that change the sequence of execution are
a) conditional instructions
b) logical instructions
c) control transfer instructions
d) data transfer instructions
c
7. The control transfer instructions are divided into
a) explicit and implicit control transfer instructions
b) conditional and unconditional control transfer instructions
c) auto control and self control transfer instructions
d) all of the mentioned
b
8. The conditional control transfer instructions check a bit condition which includes any bit of
a) bit addressable RAM
b) bit addressable SFRs
c) content of accumulator
d) all of the mentioned
d
9. All conditional jumps are
a) absolute jumps
b) long jumps
c) short jumps
d) none
c
10. The first byte of a short jump instruction represents
a) opcode byte
b) relative address
c) opcode field
d) none
a
11. In logical instructions, the immediate data can be an operand for
a) increment operation
b) decrement operation
c) single operand instruction
d) none
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Addressing Modes of 8051» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – 8051 Instruction Set -2 
