1. In the I/O mode, the 8255 ports work as
a) reset pins
b) set pins
c) programmable I/O ports
d) only output ports
c
2. In BSR mode, only port C can be used to
a) set individual ports
b) reset individual ports
c) set and reset individual ports
d) programmable I/O ports
c
3. The feature of mode 0 is
a) any port can be used as input or output
b) output ports are latched
c) maximum of 4 ports are available
d) all of the mentioned
d
4. The strobed input/output mode is another name of
a) mode 0
b) mode 1
c) mode 2
d) none
b
5. If the value of the pin STB (Strobe Input) falls to low level, then
a) input port is loaded into input latches
b) input port is loaded into output latches
c) output port is loaded into input latches
d) output port is loaded into output latches
a
6. The signal, SLCT in the direction of signal flow, OUT, indicates the selection of
a) Control word register
b) CPU
c) Printer
d) Ports
c
7. The pulse width of the signal INIT at the receiving terminal must be more than
a) 10 microseconds
b) 20 microseconds
c) 40 microseconds
d) 50 microseconds
d
8. The level of the signal ERROR(active low) becomes ‘low’ when the printer is in
a) Paper end state
b) Offline state
c) Error state
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. The signals that are provided to maintain proper data flow and synchronization between the data transmitter and receiver are
a) handshaking signals
b) control signals
c) input signals
d) none
a
10. The feature of mode 2 of 8255 is
a) single 8-bit port is available
b) both inputs and outputs are latched
c) port C is used for generating handshake signals
d) all of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – PIO 8255 (Programmable Input – Output Port)» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Interfacing Analog to Digital Data Converters 
