1. The number of CPIs(Clock Per Instruction) for an instruction of RISC processors is
a) 0
b) 1
c) 2
d) 3
b
2. Which of the following is not true about RISC processors?
a) addressing modes are less
b) pipelining is key for high speed
c) microcoding is required
d) single machine cycle instructions
c
3. The RISC processors that support variable length instructions are from
a) Intel
b) Motorola
c) AMD
d) Intel and Motorola
d
4. Which of the following is true about register windowing?
a) chips expose 32 registers to programmer
b) puts demands on multiplexers
c) puts enormous demands on register ports
d) all of the mentioned
d
5. The disadvantage of register windowing is
a) high speed
b) puts demands on multiplexers/register ports
c) consumes less cycles
d) doesn’t handle overflow/underflow
d
6. The register window is used to point the number of physical registers is
a) infinite
b) that are currently used
c) finite
d) that are unused
c
7. Which of the following is not a stage of pipeline of a RISC processor?
a) read registers and decode the instructions
b) fetch instructions from registers
c) write result into a register
d) access an operand in data memory
b
1. Fetch instructions from memory
2. Read registers and decode the instructions
3. Execute the instructions or calculate an address
4. Access an operand in data memory
5. Write result into a register.
8. When an instruction depends on the results of the previous instructions then
a) error occurs
b) software fault occurs
c) data dependency occurs
d) hardware fault occurs
c
9. The instructions that instruct the processor to make a decision about the next instruction to be executed are
a) data dependency instructions
b) branch instructions
c) control transfer instructions
d) none
b
10. The reason for which the RISC processor goes to idle state(or stall) is
a) delay in reading information from memory
b) poor instruction set design
c) dependencies between instructions
d) all of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors Problems, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Hybrid Architecture -RISC and CISC Convergence, Advantages of RISC, Design Issues of RISC Processors -1» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Architecture of 8051 
