1. The time taken by the ADC from the active edge of SOC(start of conversion) pulse till the active edge of EOC(end of conversion) signal is called
a) edge time
b) conversion time
c) conversion delay
d) time delay
c
2. The popular technique that is used in the integration of ADC chips is
a) successive approximation
b) dual slope integration
c) successive approximation and dual slope integration
d) none
c
3. The procedure of algorithm for interfacing ADC contain
a) ensuring stability of analog input
b) issuing start of conversion pulse to ADC
c) reading digital data output of ADC as equivalent digital output
d) all of the mentioned
d
4. Which is the ADC among the following?
a) AD 7523
b) 74373
c) 74245
d) ICL7109
d
5. The conversion delay in a successive approximation of an ADC 0808/0809 is
a) 100 milliseconds
b) 100 microseconds
c) 50 milliseconds
d) 50 milliseconds
b
Join [email protected]
6. The number of inputs that can be connected at a time to an ADC that is integrated with successive approximation is
a) 4
b) 2
c) 8
d) 16
c
7. ADC 7109 integrated by Dual slope integration technique is used for
a) low cost option
b) slow practical applications
c) low complexity
d) all of the mentioned
d
8. Which of the following is not one of the phases of the total conversion cycle?
a) autozero phase
b) conversion phase
c) signal integrate phase
d) disintegrate phase
b
9. Which of the following phase contain feedback loop in it?
a) autozero phase
b) signal integrate phase
c) disintegrate phase
d) none
a
10. In the signal integrate phase, the differential input voltage between IN LO(input low) and IN HI(input high) pins is integrated by the internal integrator for a fixed period of
a) 256 clock cycles
b) 1024 clock cycles
c) 2048 clock cycles
d) 4096 clock cycles
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all Puzzles on Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Modes of Operation of 8255» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Interfacing Digital to Analog Converters, Stepper Motor Interfacing and Control of High Power Devices Using 8255 
