1. While CPU is executing a program, an interrupt exists then it
a) follows the next instruction in the program
b) jumps to instruction in other registers
c) breaks the normal sequence of execution of instructions
d) stops executing the program
c
2. An interrupt breaks the execution of instructions and diverts its execution to
a) Interrupt service routine
b) Counter word register
c) Execution unit
d) control unit
a
3. While executing the main program, if two or more interrupts occur, then the sequence of appearance of interrupts is called
a) multi-interrupt
b) nested interrupt
c) interrupt within interrupt
d) nested interrupt and interrupt within interrupt
d
4. Whenever a number of devices interrupt a CPU at a time, and if the processor is able to handle them properly, it is said to have
a) interrupt handling ability
b) interrupt processing ability
c) multiple interrupt processing ability
d) multiple interrupt executing ability
c
5. NMI stands for
a) nonmaskable interrupt
b) nonmultiple interrupt
c) nonmovable interrupt
d) none of the mentioned
a
7. If any interrupt request given to an input pin cannot be disabled by any means then the input pin is called
a) maskable interrupt
b) nonmaskable interrupt
c) maskable interrupt and nonmaskable interrupt
d) none of the mentioned
b
8. The INTR interrupt may be
a) maskable
b) nonmaskable
c) maskable and nonmaskable
d) none of the mentioned
a
9. The Programmable interrupt controller is required to
a) handle one interrupt request
b) handle one or more interrupt requests at a time
c) handle one or more interrupt requests with a delay
d) handle no interrupt request
b
10. The INTR interrupt may be masked using the flag
a) direction flag
b) overflow flag
c) interrupt flag
d) sign flag
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Stack Structure of 8086/8088» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Interrupt Cycle of 8086/8088 
