1. The memory of a microprocessor serves as
a) storage of individual instructions
b) temporary storage for the data
c) storing common instructions or data for all processors
d) all of the mentioned
d
2. In shared bus architecture, the required processor(s) to perform a bus cycle, for fetching data or instructions is
a) one processor
b) two processors
c) more than two processors
d) none of the mentioned
a
3. In multiport memory configuration, the processor(s) that address the multiport memory is(are)
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) many
b
4. The memory space of a processor that is mapped to other processor/processors and vice-versa is known as
a) multi microprocessor system
b) memory technique
c) bus window technique
d) mapping technique
c
5. The disadvantage of the bus window technique is
a) both processors must know about bus window
b) both processors must know the address map
c) loss of effective local memory space
d) all of the mentioned
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Bus switches are present in
a) bus window technique
b) crossbar switching
c) linked input/output
d) shared bus
b
7. Which of the following is not a type of configuration that is based on physical interconnections between the processors?
a) star configuration
b) loop configuration
c) regular topologies
d) incomplete interconnection
d
i) star configuration
ii) loop or ring configuration
iii) complete interconnection
iv) regular topologies
v) irregular topologies.
8. The configuration, in which all the processing elements are connected to a central switching element, that may be independent processor via dedicated paths is
a) star
b) loop
c) complete
d) irregular
a
9. The configuration that is not suitable for a large number of processors is
a) star
b) loop
c) complete
d) regular
c
10. The array processor architecture is an example of
a) star
b) loop
c) complete
d) regular
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – High Storage Capacity Memory Devices» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Software Aspects of Multimicroprocessor Systems 
