1. The first processor with an inbuilt floating point unit is
a) 80386
b) 80486
c) 80286
d) 8086
b
2. Which of the following signal is handled by bus control and request sequencer?
a) ADS#
b) PWT
c) RDY#
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. The unit that subjects the processor operation to boundary scan tests is
a) parity generation and control unit
b) prefetcher unit
c) boundary scan and control unit
d) segmentation unit
c
4. The management of the virtual memory of the system and adequate protection to data or codes in the physical memory is provided by
a) segmentation unit
b) paging unit
c) attribute PLA
d) all of the mentioned
d
5. The flag that is added to 80486 in additional to the flags similar to 80386 is
a) alignment check flag
b) parity check flag
c) conditional flag
d) all of the mentioned
a
Join [email protected]
6. The major limitation of 80386-387 system is
a) low speed
b) 80386 sends data using an I/O handshake technique
c) 80386 returns to real mode by reset operation
d) none of the mentioned
b
7. The datatype that the 80486 doesnot support is
a) Signed and unsigned
b) ASCII
c) Floating point
d) None
d
1. Signed
2. Unsigned
3. Floating point
4. BCD
5. String
6. ASCII.
8. In Little Endian data format, the data is stored as
a) MSB is stored at lower memory address and LSB at higher memory address
b) LSB is stored at lower memory address and MSB at higher memory address
c) MSB is stored at general purpose registers
d) LSB is stored at general purpose registers
b
9. The on-chip cache is used for storing
a) addresses of data
b) opcodes and data
c) data and their addresses
d) opcodes and their addresses
b
10. The on-chip cache is controlled by
a) Cache disable(CD)
b) No write through(NW)
c) Cache disable and No write through
d) None of the mentioned
c
11. The on-chip cache can be flushed using external hardware using
a) FLUSH pin
b) TERMINATE pin
c) FLOW pin
d) Pin FLUSH# or using software
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors and Micro-controllers.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors and Micro-controllers.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors and Micro-controllers, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Enhanced Instruction Set of 80386» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Features of 80586 (Pentium), Concepts of Computer Architecture, Branch Prediction 
