1. The mnemonic that is placed before the arithmetic operation is performed is
a) AAA
b) AAS
c) AAM
d) AAD
d
2. The Carry flag is undefined after performing the operation
a) AAA
b) ADC
c) AAM
d) AAD
d
3. The instruction that performs logical AND operation and the result of the operation is not available is
a) AAA
b) AND
c) TEST
d) XOR
c
4. In the RCL instruction, the contents of the destination operand undergo function as
a) carry flag is pushed into LSB & MSB is pushed into the carry flag
b) carry flag is pushed into MSB & LSB is pushed into the carry flag
c) auxiliary flag is pushed into LSB & MSB is pushed into the carry flag
d) parity flag is pushed into MSB & LSB is pushed into the carry flag
a
5. The instruction that is used as prefix to an instruction to execute it repeatedly until the CX register becomes zero is
a) SCAS
b) REP
c) CMPS
d) STOS
b
6. Match the following
A) MOvSB/SW       1) loads AL/AX register by content of a string
B) CMPS           2) moves a string of bytes stored in source to destination
C) SCAS           3) compares two strings of bytes or words whose length is stored in CX register
D) LODS           4) scans a string of bytes or words
a) A-3,B-4,C-2,D-1
b) A-2,B-1,C-4,D-3
c) A-2,B-3,C-1,D-4
d) A-2,B-3,C-4,D-1
d
7. The instructions that are used to call a subroutine from the main program and return to the main program after execution of called function are
a) CALL, JMP
b) JMP, IRET
c) CALL, RET
d) JMP, RET
c
8. The instruction that unconditionally transfers the control of execution to the specified address is
a) CALL
b) JMP
c) RET
d) IRET
b
9. Which instruction cannot force the 8086 processor out of ‘halt’ state?
a) Interrupt request
b) Reset
c) Both interrupt request and reset
d) Hold
d
10. NOP instruction introduces
a) Address
b) Delay
c) Memory location
d) None of the mentioned
b
11. Which of the following is not a machine controlled instruction?
a) HLT
b) CLC
c) LOCK
d) ESC
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors for Freshers, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Instruction Set of 8086/8088 – 2» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Assembler Directives and Operators 
