1. The instruction, MOV AX, 0005H belongs to the address mode
a) register
b) direct
c) immediate
d) register relative
c
2. The instruction, MOV AX, 1234H is an example of
a) register addressing mode
b) direct addressing mode
c) immediate addressing mode
d) based indexed addressing mode
c
3. The instruction, MOV AX, [2500H] is an example of
a) immediate addressing mode
b) direct addressing mode
c) indirect addressing mode
d) register addressing mode
b
4. If the data is present in a register and it is referred using the particular register, then it is
a) direct addressing mode
b) register addressing mode
c) indexed addressing mode
d) immediate addressing mode
b
5. The instruction, MOV AX,[BX] is an example of
a) direct addressing mode
b) register addressing mode
c) register relative addressing mode
d) register indirect addressing mode
d
6. If the offset of the operand is stored in one of the index registers, then it is
a) based indexed addressing mode
b) relative based indexed addressing mode
c) indexed addressing mode
d) none of the mentioned
c
7. The addressing mode that is used in unconditional branch instructions is
a) intrasegment direct addressing mode
b) intrasegment indirect addressing mode
c) intrasegment direct and indirect addressing mode
d) intersegment direct addressing mode
b
8. If the location to which the control is to be transferred lies in a different segment other than the current one, then the mode is called
a) intrasegment mode
b) intersegment direct mode
c) intersegment indirect mode
d) intersegment direct and indirect mode
d
9. The instruction, JMP 5000H:2000H;
    is an example of
a) intrasegment direct mode
b) intrasegment indirect mode
c) intersegment direct mode
d) intersegment indirect mode
c
10. The contents of a base register are added to the contents of index register in
a) indexed addressing mode
b) based indexed addressing mode
c) relative based indexed addressing mode
d) based indexed and relative based indexed addressing mode
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Machine Language Instruction Formats» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Instruction Set of 8086/8088 – 1 
