1. The Stack follows the sequence
a) first-in-first-out
b) first-in-last-out
c) last-in-first-out
d) last-in-last-out
c
2. If the processor is executing the main program that calls a subroutine, then after executing the main program up to the CALL instruction, the control will be transferred to
a) address of main program
b) subroutine address
c) address of CALL instruction
d) none of the mentioned
b
3. The stack is useful for
a) storing the register status of the processor
b) temporary storage of data
c) storing contents of registers temporarily inside the CPU
d) all of the mentioned
d
4. The Stack is accessed using
a) SP register
b) SS register
c) SP and SS register
d) None of the mentioned
c
5. As the storing of data words onto the stack is increased, the stack pointer is
a) incremented by 1
b) decremented by 1
c) incremented by 2
d) decremented by 2
d
6. While retrieving data from the stack, the stack pointer is
a) incremented by 1
b) incremented by 2
c) decremented by 1
d) decremented by 2
b
7. The process of storing the data in the stack is called ……… the stack.
a) pulling into
b) pulling out
c) pushing into
d) popping into
c
8. The reverse process of transferring the data back from the stack to the CPU register is known as
a) pulling out the stack
b) pushing out the stack
c) popping out the stack
d) popping off the stack
d
9. The books arranged one on the other on a table is an example of
a) queue
b) queue and first-in-first out
c) stack
d) stack and last-in-first-out
d
10. The PID temperature controller using 8086 has
a) data flow
b) data flow and uses queue
c) sequential flow
d) sequential flow and uses stack
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Programming With An Assembler» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Stack Structure of 8086/8088 
