1. The 32-bit control register, that is used to hold global machine status, independent of the executed task is
a) CR0
b) CR2
c) CR3
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. The descriptor table that the 80386 supports is
a) GDT (Global descriptor table)
b) IDT (Interrupt descriptor table)
c) LDT (Local descriptor table)
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. The registers that are together, known as system address registers are
a) GDTR and IDTR
b) IDTR and LDTR
c) TR and GDTR
d) LDTR and TR
a
4. Which of the following is a system segment register?
a) GDTR
b) LDTR
c) IDTR
d) None of the mentioned
b
5. The test register(s) that is provided by 80386 for page caching is
a) test control registers
b) page cache registers
c) test control and test status registers
d) test control and page cache registers
c
6. Among eight debug registers, DR0-DR7, the registers that are reserved by Intel are
a) DR0, DR1, DR2
b) DR4, DR5
c) DR1, DR4
d) DR5, DR6, DR7
b
7. The registers that are used to store four program controllable break point addresses are
a) DR5-DR7
b) DR0-DR1
c) DR6-DR7
d) DR0-DR3
d
8. The register DR6 hold
a) break point status
b) break point control information
c) break point status and break point control information
d) none of the mentioned
a
9. The flag bits that indicate the privilege level of current IO operations are
a) Virtual mode flag bits
b) IOPL flag bits
c) Resume flag bits
d) None of the mentioned
b
10. The registers that are not available for programmers are
a) data and address registers
b) instruction pointers
c) segment descriptor registers
d) flag registers
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice  all areas of Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Register Organisation of 80386 -1» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Addressing Modes of 80386, Data Types of 80386 
