1. The timer generates an interrupt, if the count value reaches to
a) 00FFH
b) FF00H
c) 0FFFH
d) FFFFH
d
2. The external interrupt that has the lowest priority among the following is
a) TF0
b) TF1
c) IE1
d) NONE
c
3. Among the five interrupts generated by 8051, the lowest priority is given to the interrupt
a) IE0
b) TF1
c) TF0
d) RI
d
4. Among the five interrupts generated by 8051, the highest priority is given to the interrupt
a) IE0
b) TF1
c) TF0
d) IE1
a
5. All the interrupts are enabled using a special function register called
a) interrupt priority register
b) interrupt register
c) interrupt function register
d) interrupt enable register
d
6. The number of bytes stored on the stack during one operation of PUSH or POP is
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4
a
7. The step involved in PUSH operation is
a) increment stack by 2 and store 8-bit content to address pointed to by SP
b) decrement stack by 1 and store 16-bit content to address pointed to by SP
c) increment stack by 1 and store 8-bit content to address pointed to by SP
d) store 8-bit content to address pointed to by SP and then increment stack by 1
c
1. Increment stack by 1
2. Store 8-bit content of the 8-bit address specified in the instruction to the address pointed to by SP.
8. The step involved in POP operation is
a) decrement stack by 2 and store 8-bit content to address pointed to by SP
b) store 16-bit content to address pointed to by SP and decrement stack by 1
c) decrement stack by 1 and store content of top of stack to address pointed to by SP
d) store content of top of stack to address pointed to by SP and then decrement stack by 1
d
1. Store the contents of top of stack pointed to by SP register to the 8-bit memory specified in the instruction.
2. Decrement stack by 1.
9. The 8051 stack is
a) auto-decrement during PUSH operations
b) auto-increment during POP operations
c) auto-decrement during POP operations
d) auto-increment during PUSH operations
d
10. After reset, the stack pointer(SP) is initialized to the address of
a) internal ROM
b) internal RAM
c) external ROM
d) external RAM
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors Assessment Questions, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Interrupt and Stack of 8051 -1» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Addressing Modes of 8051 
