1. The disadvantage of CISC design processors is
a) low burden on compiler developers
b) wide availability of existing software
c) complex in nature
d) none
c
2. The RISC architecture is preferred to CISC because RISC architecture has
a) simplicity
b) efficiency
c) high speed
d) all of the mentioned
d
3. The feature of RISC that is not present in CISC is
a) branch prediction
b) pipelining
c) branch prediction and pipelining
d) none
c
4. The feature of hybrid CISC-RISC architecture is
a) consume a lot of power
b) not applicable to mobile applications
c) processed by RISC core
d) all of the mentioned
d
5. Which of the following is an application of RISC architecture by adding more instructions?
a) multimedia applications
b) telecommunication encoding
c) image conversion
d) all of the mentioned
d
6. Which of the following processor belongs to hybrid RISC-CISC architecture?
a) Intel Pentium III
b) Intel Itanium 64
c) AMD’s X86-64
d) All of the mentioned
d
7. In order to implement complex instructions, CISC architectures use
a) macroprogramming
b) hardwire
c) microprogramming
d) none
c
8. The advantage of RISC processors is
a) can operate at high clock frequency
b) shorter design cycle
c) simple and fast
d) all of the mentioned
d
9. The additional functionality that can be placed on the same chip of RISC is
a) Memory management units
b) Floating point units
c) Memory management and floating point arithmetic units
d) RAM, ROM
c
10. The number of clockcycles that take to wait until the length of the instruction is known in order to start decoding is
a) 0
b) 1
c) 2
d) 3
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Extended Instruction Set In Advanced Pentium Processors,  Formal Verification» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Hybrid Architecture -RISC and CISC Convergence, Advantages of RISC, Design Issues of RISC Processors -2 
