1. In ‘Rotate source, count’ instructions, if the CF is equal to MSB of operand (source) then
a) TF is cleared
b) OF is cleared
c) TF is set
d) OF is set
b
2. The instruction that affects the flags is
a) IMUL
b) INSW
c) INSB
d) POP*A
a
3. A general protection exception is generated, if the value of
a) CPL is equal to that of IOPL
b) CPL is less than that of IOPL
c) CPL is greater than that of IOPL
d) None of the mentioned
c
4. While executing the instruction, OUTSW, the SI is incremented by
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4
b
5. The instruction that is used to exit the procedure is
a) QUIT
b) STOP
c) LEAVE
d) EXIT
c
6. The instruction that determines the number of bytes, to be copied into the new stack frame, from the previous stack is
a) ENTER
b) BOUND
c) CLTS
d) LEAVE
a
7. The instruction that is used to check whether a signed array offset is within the limit, defined for it by the starting and ending index is
a) ENTER
b) BOUND
c) CLTS
d) LEAVE
b
8. The CLTS (Clear Task Switch Flag) instruction records every execution of WAIT and ESC and is trapped if the flag(s)
a) PE (Protection Enable) and TS (task switch) flags are set
b) Emulate Processor extension flag is set
c) MP flag and task switched flag is set
d) PE and MP flag is set
c
9. The instruction that determines whether the segment pointed to, by a 16-bit register, can be accessed from the current privilege level is
a) RPL
b) CPL
c) ARPL
d) VERR
d
10. The instruction that loads 6 bytes from a memory block, pointed to by the effective address of the operand, into global descriptor table register is
a) LLDT
b) SGDT
c) LGDT
d) None of the mentioned
c
11. In LGDT instruction, while loading 6 bytes, the first word is loaded into the field of
a) LIMIT field
b) BASE field
c) Either LIMIT or BASE field
d) None of the mentioned
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors for Quizzes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Instruction Set Features -1» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – 80287 Math Coprocessor -1 
