1. The stack pointer register contains
a) address of the stack segment
b) pointer address of the stack segment
c) offset of address of stack segment
d) data present in the stack segment
c
2. The stack segment register contains
a) address of the stack segment
b) base address of the stack segment
c) pointer address of the stack segment
d) data in the stack segment
b
3. PUSH operation
a) decrements SP
b) increments SP
c) decrements SS
d) increments SS
a
4. POP operation
a) decrements SP
b) increments SP
c) decrements SS
d) increments SS
b
5. The register or memory location that is pushed into the stack at the end must be
a) popped off last
b) pushed off first
c) popped off first
d) pushed off last
c
Join [email protected]
6. In the instruction, ASSUME CS : CODE, DS : DATA, SS : STACK
   the ASSUME directive directs to the assembler the
a) address of the stack segment
b) pointer address of the stack segment
c) name of the stack segment
d) name of the stack, code and data segments
d
7. When a stack segment is initialised then
a) SS and SP are initialised
b) only SS is initialised
c) only SP is initialised
d) SS and SP need not be initialised
a
8. The number of PUSH instructions and POP instructions in a subroutine must be
a) PUSH instructions must be greater than POP instructions
b) POP instructions must be greater than PUSH instructions
c) Both must be equal
d) Instructions may be any kind
c
9. 8086 does not support
a) Arithmetic operations
b) logical operations
c) BCD operations
d) Direct BCD packed multiplication
d
10. For 8086 microprocessor, the stack segment may have a memory block of a maximum of
a) 32K bytes
b) 64K bytes
c) 16K bytes
d) NONE
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Stack» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Interrupts and Interrupt Service Routines 
