1. The assembler directives which are the hints using some predefined alphabetical strings are given to
a) processor
b) memory
c) assembler
d) processor & assembler
c
2. The directive used to inform the assembler, the names of the logical segments to be assumed for different segments used in the program is
a) ASSUME
b) SEGMENT
c) SHORT
d) DB
a
             SYNTAX: ASSUME segment:segment_name
                 Eg: ASSUME CS:Code
                 here CS is the Code segment and code is the name assumed to the segment.
3. Match the following
   a) DB          1) used to direct the assembler to reserve only 10-bytes
   b) DT          2) used to direct the assembler to reserve only 4 words
   c) DW          3) used to direct the assembler to reserve byte or bytes
   d) DQ          4) used to direct the assembler to reserve words
a) a-3, b-2, c-4, d-1
b) a-2, b-3, c-1, d-4
c) a-3, b-1, c-2, d-4
d) a-3, b-1, c-4, d-2
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
4. The directive that marks the end of an assembly language program is
a) ENDS
b) END
c) ENDS & END
d) None of the mentioned
b
5. The directive that marks the end of a logical segment is
a) ENDS
b) END
c) ENDS & END
d) None of the mentioned
a
6. The directive that updates the location counter to the next even address while executing a series of instructions is
a) EVN
b) EVEN
c) EVNE
d) EQU
b
7. The directive that directs the assembler to start the memory allotment for a particular segment/block/code from the declared address is
a) OFFSET
b) LABEL
c) ORG
d) GROUP
c
If the directive is not present, then the location counter is initialized to 0000H.
8. The directive that marks the starting of the logical segment is
a) SEG
b) SEGMENT
c) SEG & SEGMENT
d) PROC
b
9. The recurrence of the numerical values or constants in a program code is reduced by
a) ASSUME
b) LOCAL
c) LABEL
d) EQU
d
10. The labels or constants that can be used by any module in the program is possible when they are declared as
a) PUBLIC
b) LOCAL
c) GLOBAL
d) Either PUBLIC or GLOBAL
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Instruction Set of 8086/8088 – 3» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Do’s and Don’ts While Using Instructions 
