1. The files that reside in the current drive and directory of the hard disk is
a) OBJ files
b) EXE files
c) SRC files
d) DEST files
b
2. The master processor stores the result buffers on to the hard disk with the filename as
a) .EXE file
b) .OBJ file
c) .EXE file with extension .RES
d) .OBJ file with extension .RES
c
3. The 8288 bus controller chip derives the signals
a) ALE
b) DEN
c) DT/R(active low)
d) All of the mentioned
d
4. The EXE files should not exceed the size of
a) 30 KB
b) 50 KB
c) 60 KB
d) 40 KB
c
5. A part of memory that can be addressed by more than one processor for communication is known as
a) memory module
b) bus window
c) ram
d) memory management unit
b
6. When a subprocessor wants to communicate with the bus window, it informs the main processor to
a) enable control buffer
b) storage buffer
c) disable tristate buffer
d) translation look aside buffer
c
7. When the subprocessor completes its execution, then the status on the status lines shows
a) hold status
b) halt status
c) high status
d) low status
b
8. For MEMR(active low) and MEMWR(active low) operations the mode of isolation buffer should respectively be in
a) receiver mode, receiver mode
b) transmit mode, receiver mode
c) receiver mode, transmit mode
d) transmit mode, transmit mode
c
9. If the DIR pin of the isolation chip is high, then it enters into
a) receiver mode
b) virtual access mode
c) transmit or receive mode
d) transmit mode
d
10. The complete software system is divided into
a) main program
b) Interrupt routine IRT2 for first subprocessing the unit
c) Interrupt routine IRT3 for first subprocessing the unit
d) all of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Tightly Coupled and Loosely Coupled Systems» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Salient Features of 80286 
