1. The method of defining the interrupt service routine for software is
a) same as that of hardware
b) difficult than hardware
c) easier than software
d) none of the mentioned
a
2. While programming for any type of interrupt, the interrupt vector table is set
a) externally
b) through a program
c) either externally or through the program
d) externally and through the program
c
3. To execute a program one should
a) assemble the program
b) link the program
c) apply external pulse
d) all of the mentioned
d
4. Procedures are also known as
a) macros
b) segment
c) subroutines
d) none
c
5. Procedures, for their execution, require
a) input data
b) output data
c) constants
d) input data or constants
d
6. The technique that is used to pass the data or parameter to procedures in assembly language program is by using
a) global declared variable
b) registers
c) stack
d) all of the mentioned
d
7. If a procedure is interactive, then
a) it accepts inputs directly from input devices
b) it uses global declared variable technique
c) it uses stack
d) it uses memory locations
a
8. For passing the parameters to procedures using the PUBLIC & EXTRN directives, it must be declared PUBLIC in the
a) subroutine
b) procedure
c) main routine
d) main routine and subroutine
c
9. The technique to estimate the size of an executable program, before it is assembled and linked is
a) memory location technique
b) global variable technique
c) stack
d) none
d
10. To estimate the size of an executable program before it is assembled and linked, the programming methodology concerned is by writing
a) programs with more than one segment for data and code
b) programs with FAR subroutines each of size up to 64KB
c) programs with more than one segment for stack
d) all of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors for Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Non Maskable Interrupt and Maskable Interrupt (INTR)» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Macros 
