1. The advantage of dynamic RAM is
a) high packing density
b) low cost
c) less power consumption
d) all of the mentioned
d
2. Whenever a large memory  is required in a microcomputer system, the memory subsystem is generally designed using
a) Static RAM
b) Dynamic RAM
c) Both static and dynamic RAM
d) ROM
b
3. If a typical static RAM cell requires 6 transistors then corresponding dynamic RAM requires
a) 1 transistor along with capacitance
b) 2 transistors along with resistance
c) 3 transistors along with diode
d) 2 transistors along with capacitance
a
4. To store the charge as a representation of data, the basic dynamic RAM cell uses
a) resistor
b) capacitor
c) diode
d) transistor
c
5. The process of refreshing the data in the RAM to reduce the possibility of data loss is known as
a) data cycle
b) regain cycle
c) retain cycle
d) refresh cycle
d
6. The field in which dynamic RAM is more complicated than static RAM is
a) complexity
b) interfacing circuit
c) execution unit
d) cost
b
7. Memory refresh activity is
a) initialised by processor
b) initialised by external bus master
c) initialised by refresh mechanism
d) initialised either by processor or by external bus
c
8. The number of memory chips that are enabled at a time for refresh activity is
a) 2
b) 4
c) 8
d) more than 1
d
9. A timer that derives pulse for refreshing action or time for which a dynamic RAM cell can hold data charge level practically constant is
a) constant timer
b) data managing timer
c) refresh timer
d) qualitative timer
c
10. If ‘n’ denotes the number of rows that are to be refreshed in a single refresh interval, ‘td’ denotes the range of time it may take then, refresh time (tr) can be defined as
a) n*td
b) td/n
c) n/td
d) tdn
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice all areas of Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Semiconductor Memory Interfacing» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Interfacing I/O Ports 
