1. The units that are primarily used to resolve indirect mode of memory addressing is called
a) ALU
b) AGU
c) ALU and AGU
d) NONE
b
2. The AGUs work at a speed of
a) equal to that of processor
b) twice the processor
c) thrice the processor
d) none
b
3. Pentium 4 consists of
a) 4 ALUs
b) 4 AGUs
c) 2 ALUs and 2 AGUs
d) 4 ALUs and 4 AGUs
c
4. The number of instructions that can be executed per clock cycle by the ALU or AGU is
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4
b
5. The paging mechanism of IA-32 architecture has an extension as
a) page memory extension
b) page size extension
c) page address extension and page size extension
d) page memory extension and page size extension
c
1. Page address extension to address space greater than 4GB.
2. Page size extension to map linear address to physical address in 4MB.
6. The linear address space is mapped into the processors physical address space either directly or through paging by
a) flat memory model
b) segmented memory model
c) flat or segmented memory model
d) none
c
7. The features of thread in threading process is
a) threads can be bunched together
b) threads are simple and light weight
c) threads are independent
d) all of the mentioned
d
8. The process in which multiple threads correspond to the tracking of each individual object is known as
a) multiple thread system
b) multi thread parallelism
c) thread level parallelism
d) multi level parallelism
c
9. Which of the following is not a type of context switching?
a) time-slice multithreading
b) on chip multiprocessing
c) hyperthreading
d) none
d
1. Time-slice multithreading
2. On chip multiprocessing
3. Hyperthreading.
10. The thread level parallelism is a process of
a) saving the context of currently executing process
b) flushing the CPU of the same process
c) loading the context of new next process
d) all of the mentioned
d
1. Saving the context of currently executing process.
2. Flushing the CPU of the same process.
3. Loading the context of new next process is called a context switch.
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microprocessors.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Microprocessors.
To practice tough questions and answers on all areas of Microprocessors, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Netburst Microarchitecture For Pentium4 -2,  Instruction Translation Lookaside Buffer (ITLB) and Branch Prediction» Next - Microprocessors Questions and Answers – Hyperthreading In Pentium 
