1. At what concentration (in ppm), is nitrogen present in the atmosphere?
a) 780,840
b) 390,420
c) 78,084
d) 900,000
a
2. In the lower layers of atmosphere, what range of wavelengths of light is predominant?
a) Less than 100 nm
b) Greater than 300 nm
c) Between 100-300 nm
d) All wavelengths are equally present
b
3. What does the ratio of the mass of water vapour to mass of air indicate?
a) Absolute humidity
b) Specific humidity
c) Relative humidity
d) Approximate humidity
b
4. What is the region of mild and irregular wind in the equatorial region known as?
a) Trade winds
b) Westerlies
c) Doldrums
d) Easterlies
c
5. “Roaring forties” is the term used to describe which of the following winds?
a) East-to-west air winds in the southern hemisphere
b) West-to east air winds in the northern hemisphere
c) East-to-west air winds in the northern hemisphere
d) West-to-east air winds in the southern hemisphere
d
6. Match the following.
A. Hurricane               1.Indian Ocean and South Pacific 
B. Typhoon                 2.Low level air circulation
C. Cyclone                 3.Northeastern Pacific and Atlantic
D. Tropical Cyclone        4.Northwestern Pacific
a) A-1; B-3; C-2; D-4
b) A-3; B-4; C-1; D-2
c) A-2; B-3; C-4; D-1
d) A-3; B-2; C-1; D-4
b
7. Which of the following statements is true?
a) Troposphere is equally thick across different parts of the world
b) Troposphere contains the ozone layer
c) Troposphere is thinner at the equator than at the poles
d) Troposphere is thicker at the equator than at the poles
d
8. The temperature decreases with altitude in the stratosphere layer.
a) True
b) False
b
9. Which of the following indicates the correct order of the principal layers of the earth’s atmosphere from top to bottom?
a) Troposphere – Stratosphere – Mesosphere – Thermosphere – Exosphere
b) Thermosphere – Stratosphere – Troposphere – Mesosphere – Exosphere
c) Exosphere – Thermosphere – Mesosphere – Stratosphere – Troposphere
d) Exosphere – Mesosphere – Thermosphere – Stratosphere – Troposphere
c
10. Which layer of the atmosphere is responsible for aurora formation?
a) Ozone layer
b) Stratosphere
c) Exosphere
d) Ionosphere
d
11. Which of the following mentioned layers is NOT a homosphere?
a) Exosphere
b) Troposphere
c) Ionosphere
d) Mesosphere
a
12. Turbopause is highest layer of the homosphere.
a) True
b) False
a
13. The planetary boundary layer belongs to which of the following atmospheric layers?
a) Exosphere
b) Ionosphere
c) Stratosphere
d) None of the mentioned
d
14. What is the atmospheric pressure at sea level?
a) 101325 Pa
b) 14.696 psi
c) 760 Torr
d) All of the mentioned
d
15. By international convention, which line marks the outermost boundary of the Earth’s atmosphere?
a) Space line
b) Boundary line
c) Karman line
d) Astronaut line
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Science.
To practice all areas of Environmental Science, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Science Questions and Answers – Air Quality» Next - Environmental Science Questions and Answers – Climate Model 
