1. Below which of the following pH is rain regarded as ‘acid rain’?
a) 7
b) 7.3
c) 5.6
d) 6
c
2. Glass containers are generally not preferred for sampling rain water. Why?
a) Glass containers are expensive
b) Glass containers are not easy to maintain
c) Glass containers affect the pH of the rain water
d) All of the mentioned
c
3. Which of the following gases are main contributors to acid rain?
a) Carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide
b) Sulphur dioxide and carbon dioxide
c) Sulphur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide
d) Sulphur dioxide and nitrous oxide
d
4. What does the term “liming” mean?
a) Application of magnesium and calcium rich substances to soil
b) Erosion of calcium carbonate(lime) zones in soil
c) Excessive growth of lemon trees in acid rain prone regions
d) None of the mentioned
a
5. Which place in India receives the highest annual rainfall?
a) Mawsynram
b) Cherrapunji
c) Siju
d) Phyllut
a
6. Who discovered the phenomenon of acid rain?
a) George Brown
b) James T. Stewart
c) Robert Angus Smith
d) Charles David
c
7. Which of the following is/are natural contributor(s) to sulphur dioxide in the atmosphere?
a) Sea sprays
b) Volcanic eruption
c) Decaying vegetation
d) All of the mentioned
d
8. What is the pH required for the survival of aquatic animals and plants?
a) 7
b) 7.5
c) 6.5
d) 4.8
d
9. The acidic air pollutants reach the Earth’s surface because of wet deposition only.
a) True
b) False
b
10. Which of the following gases is responsible for the yellowing of the Taj Mahal?
a) Organic carbon
b) Black carbon
c) Brown carbon
d) All of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Science.
To practice all areas of Environmental Science, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Science Questions and Answers – Particulates» Next - Environmental Science Questions and Answers – Aerosols 
