1. What does the word ‘meteorology’ define?
a) Study of meteors and asteroids
b) Study of measurements and instruments
c) Study of chemical properties of metals
d) Study of the weather and atmospheric changes
d
2. What is a “tetroon” in the field of meteorology?
a) A tool used to study wind patterns
b) A tool used to study pressure variations
c) A tool used to study temperature deviations
d) A tool used to study humidity
a
3. What does the Richardson number indicate in wind analysis?
a) Mechanical turbulence
b) Convective heat production
c) Mechanical turbulence & Convective heat production
d) None of the mentioned
c
4. Above which Richardson number does vertical mixing in winds disappear?
a) 1
b) 0.25
c) 0.5
d) 0.75
b
5. When Richardson number is equal to zero, what is the wind turbulence characteristic?
a) No vertical mixing
b) Weak mechanical turbulence due to stratification
c) Convective mixing is greater than mechanical turbulence
d) Only mechanical turbulence
d
6. Below what Richardson number does convective mixing start dominating mechanical turbulence?
a) 0
b) -0.04
c) -0.03
d) -0.1
b
7. What is high pressure area with sinking air also known as?
a) Cyclone
b) Anti-cyclone
c) Eddy zone
d) Richardson zone
b
8. What does the term “turbidity” indicate in atmospheric quality?
a) Indicates density of clouds
b) Reduction of light due to dust particles
c) Indicates the humidity
d) Turbulence of winds
b
9. Which of the following gases vary significantly over time and place at the atmospheric boundary level?
a) Carbon dioxide
b) Ozone
c) Water vapour
d) Oxygen
c
10. How does atmospheric pressure vary with increase in altitude?
a) It decreases linearly
b) It decreases exponentially
c) It increases linearly
d) It increases till stratosphere and then starts decreasing exponentially
b
11. What does the term obliquity indicate?
a) Earth’s axial tilt of 23.5 degrees
b) Alignment of the Earth’s internal magnetic field
c) Analysis of ocean currents
d) Pressure variation over different seasons
a
12. Which are the two forces balanced by the geostrophic wind?
a) Coriolis effect and pressure gradient force
b) Coriolis force and centrifugal force
c) Frictional force and pressure gradient force
d) Pressure gradient force and centrifugal force
a
13. Which of the following has the highest albedo?
a) Water surface
b) Plateau surfaces
c) Vegetation
d) Fresh snow
d
14. The stability of the stratosphere is due to which of the following reasons?
a) Absorption of solar energy by ozone layer
b) Strong wind currents
c) Pressure is minimal
d) All of the mentioned
a
15. Which of the following is regarded as climate control factor(s)?
a) Latitude
b) Elevation
c) Ocean currents
d) All of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Science.
To practice all areas of Environmental Science, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Science Questions and Answers – Air Pollution – Sources – 2» Next - Environmental Science Questions and Answers – Air Quality 
