1. How does carbon monoxide affect the human body?
a) It does not allow binding of oxygen with haemoglobin
b) It reduces the surface area of the alveoli and disrupts gaseous transfers
c) It causes the liver to malfunction, increasing bile secretion
d) It reduces the body’s tendency to absorb water thereby making us feel dehydrated
a
2. What is the Haldane equation used for?
a) To measure the amount of oxygen converted to ozone for a given wavelength of UV light
b) To measure the ratio of affinity of carbon monoxide and oxygen to bind to a haemoglobin molecule
c) To measure the percentage of carbon monoxide that is oxidised to carbon dioxide in various levels of oxygen
d) To calculate the percentage of oxygen addition and carbon dioxide removal during respiratory action
b
3. How does nitrogen affect the human body?
a) Increases vulnerability to pathogens
b) Destroys the macrophages
c) Injures the defence mechanism of the lungs
d) All of the mentioned
d
4. Which of the following is the current major contributor to lead air pollution?
a) Motor vehicles
b) Metal processing centres
c) Waste incinerators
d) Lead acid battery manufacturing units
b
5. How does lead affect the human body?
a) Increases blood pressure
b) Damages the cerebellum, liver and kidney
c) Leads to reproductive disorders and osteoporosis
d) All of the mentioned
d
6. Which of the following belongs to class of extremely toxic dioxin compound(s)?
a) Polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins
b) Polychlorinated dibenzofurans
c) Polychlorinated biphenyls
d) All of the mentioned
d
7. Which of the following compounds was earlier produced for the utility of transformers?
a) PDD
b) PCDF
c) PCB
d) TCDD
c
8. Crocidolite, actionide and amosite belong to which of the following category of pollutants?
a) Particulate matter
b) Asbestos
c) Dioxins
d) Cigarette smoke
b
9. Which of the following plants is extremely sensitive towards sulphur dioxide?
a) Onion
b) Potato
c) Corn
d) Tomato
d
10. TCDD is a human carcinogen.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Environmental Science.
To practice all areas of Environmental Science, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environmental Science Questions and Answers – Air Pollution – Effects – 1» Next - Environmental Science Questions and Answers – Air Pollution – Sources – 1 
