1. What is the meaning of bulking of sand?
a) Increase in volume of sand due to moisture absorption
b) Increase in weight of sand due to moisture absorption
c) Increase in mass of sand due to moisture absorption
d) Increase in strength of sand due to moisture absorption
a
2. How is bulking related to moisture content?
a) Keeps on increasing with moisture content
b) Increases to a certain point and then decreases
c) Keeps on decreasing with moisture content
d) Decreases to a certain point and then increases
b
3. a, b, c in the figure below in order are:
a) coarse, fine, medium grained sand
b) fine, coarse, medium grained sand
c) medium, fine, coarse grained sand
d) fine, medium, coarse grained sand
d
4. What happens if bulking is not accounted for while preparing concrete?
a) Concrete gets hardened
b) Concrete is not affected
c) Concrete gets softened
d) Concrete becomes watery
a
5. By how much percentage does the volume increase when the moisture content is 5-10%?
a) 10-20%
b) 20-40%
c) 30-40%
d) 20-30%
b
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. How is particle size of sand related to bulking?
a) Not related
b) Directly proportional
c) Inversely proportional
d) Shows variable relation
c
7. What does ‘h’ represents in the formula used to calculate the bulking factor?
a) Height of jar
b) Height of saturated sample
c) Height of dry sample
d) Height of water
b
8. Bulking is the phenomenon applicable to both fine and coarse aggregates.
a) True
b) False
b
9. Sand does not show any bulking when:
a) Completely saturated
b) Partially saturated
c) Contains small amount of impurities
d) Voids are partially filled with air
a
10. What effect does bulking have on fresh concrete?
a) Strength reduces
b) Shrinkage increases
c) Volume reduces
d) Workability increases
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Basic Civil Engineering.
To practice all areas of Basic Civil Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Basic Civil Engineering Questions and Answers – Source and Classification of Sand» Next - Basic Civil Engineering Questions and Answers – Properties of Sand 
