1. Why is natural cement used very limitedly?
a) Brown in Colour
b) Standard consistency is not met with
c) Sets too quickly
d) Particle size is too fine
c
2. Who invented Portland cement and in which year?
a) William Aspdin, 1824
b) William Aspdin, 1840s
c) Joseph Aspdin, 1840s
d) Joseph Aspdin, 1824
b
3. What is the average particle size of cement?
a) 15 microns
b) 45 microns
c) 75 microns
d) 100 microns
a
4. What is the meaning of soundness of cement?
a) Ability to flow when mixed
b) Ability to make ringing noise when struck
c) Ability to form strong and sound structure
d) Ability to retain volume after setting.
d
5. Time elapsed from the instance of adding water until paste ceases to behave as fluid is called:
a) Initial setting time
b) Final setting time
c) Intermediate setting time
d) Absolute setting time
a
6. Which of the below mentioned is not a result of field test performed on cement?
a) There should not be any lumps
b) It should feel cold when you put your hand in bag of cement
c) The colour should be blackish grey
d) It should not be gritty when rubbed with finger
c
7. Which equipment is used to test the setting time of cement?
a) Core cutter
b) Vibrator
c) Universal testing machine (UTM)
d) Vicat apparatus
d
8. What is the initial setting time of cement?
a) 1 hour
b) 30 minutes
c) 15 minutes
d) 30 hours
b
9. Use of coarser cement particles leads to:
a) Low durability
b) Higher strength
c) Low consistency
d) Higher soundness
a
10. Wet cement can cause severe skin burns if not washed off with water immediately.
a) True
b) False
a
11. Green cement is:
a) Green coloured cement
b) Cement mixed with plant products
c) Cement mixed with recycled materials
d) Cement mixed with green algae
c
12. What is the depth the needle in Vicat apparatus should penetrate into the cement paste in consistency test?
a) 33-35 cm from bottom of the mould
b) 33-35 mm from top of the mould
c) 33-35 cm from top of the mould
d) 33-35 mm from bottom of the mould
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Basic Civil Engineering.
To practice all areas of Basic Civil Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Basic Civil Engineering Questions and Answers – Calcination and Slaking of Lime» Next - Basic Civil Engineering Questions and Answers – Ingredients of Cement 
