1. Ammonia is used for which of the mentioned processes?
a) Manufacture of nitrogen fertilizers
b) Manufacture of nitric acid
c) Manufacture of nitrogen chemical compounds
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. What is the molecular weight of Ammonia?
a) 17
b) 18
c) 19
d) 20
a
3. What are the boiling and melting points of Ammonia respectively?
a) -33.4 Celsius & -77.7 Celsius
b) -77.7 Celsius & -33.4 Celsius
c) -10.6 Celsius & -20.3 Celsius
d) None of the mentioned
a
4. Which of the mentioned statements regarding the solubility of ammonia is true?
a) Insoluble in water
b) Highly Soluble in water
c) Soluble in Chloroform
d) Highly Soluble in water and soluble in Chloroform
d
5. What is the catalyst used in manufacture of Ammonia by Haber’s process?
a) Fe
b) Molybdenum
c) Silica
d) Aluminum
a
5. What is the promoter used in the manufacture of Ammonia by Haber’s process?
a) Fe
b) Molybdenum
c) Silica
d) Aluminum
b
6. What is the temperature range at which the preheated gas flows through the inside of tube, which contains promoted iron catalyst?
a) 450-500 Celsius
b) 500-550 Celsius
c) 550-600 Celsius
d) 400-600 Celsius
b
7. Synthesis of Ammonia by Haber’s process is what kind of reaction?
a) Exothermic
b) Endothermic
c) No change is energy
d) None of the mentioned
a
8. Which of the mentioned conditions will favor synthesis of Ammonia by Haber’s process?
a) High temperature and High pressure
b) Low temperature and High pressure
c) High temperature and Low pressure
d) Low temperature and Low pressure
b
9. Which of the following mentioned is a source of H2 to produce ammonia by Haber’s process?
a) Producer gas
b) Water gas
c) Synthesis gas
d) None of the mentioned
c
10. Iron oxide catalyst if fused which of the mentioned promoters?
a) Alkali
b) Non-ferrous metal oxides
c) Al2O3
d) All of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Chemical Industry.
To practice all areas of Chemical Industry,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Chemical Industry Questions and Answers – Inorganic Chemical – Oxygen and Nitrogen» Next - Chemical Industry Questions and Answers – Inorganic Chemical – Ammonia – 2 
