1. Cryogenics deals with which type of product?
a) High temperature
b) Low temperature
c) High pressurize
d) Low pressurize
b
2. Which operation mentioned below is associated with Claude cycle?
a) External refrigeration
b) Three- stage cascade cycle
c) High-speed expander
d) Low speed expander
c
3. What is the use of ammonia in Linde cycle?
a) Precooling
b) Liquefaction
c) Refrigeration
d) Compression of feed stream
a
4. Which cycle is used in the production of low purity tonnage oxygen?
a) Linde cycle
b) Claude cycle
c) Kellogg process
d) Linde-Frankl cycle
d
5. What is the amount of CO2 present in the raw materials for production of low purity tonnage oxygen?
a) 0.01-0.03
b) 0.02-0.07
c) 0.94
d) 20.97
b
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. What is the major difference between kellogg and Linde-Frankl process?
a) Recuperative heat exchanger
b) Catalytic oxidation chamber
c) Scrubbing tower
d) Refrigeration
a
7. Which process does not use air expansion for refrigeration?
a) Claude operated process
b) Elliott process
c) Turbo-reciprocating process
d) Liquefaction process
b
8. What is the composition of air entering the cold exchanger in Linde-Frankl cycle?
a) O2 and N2
b) Only N2
c) H2O and CO2
d) Only H2O
c
9. In nitrogen production which cycle is used Joule-Thomson cooling principle?
a) Claude cycle
b) Cascade cycle
c) Elliott cycle
d) Linde cycle
d
10. What is 1, 2, 3 represent in the following flow chart?
a) 1-heat exchanger, 2-liquid reservoir, 3-throttle valve
b) 1-liquid reservoir, 2-heat exchanger, 3-throttle valve
c) 1-heat exchanger, 2-throttle valve,  3- liquid reservoir
d) 1-liquid reservoir, 2- throttle valve, 3-heat exchanger
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Chemical Industry.
To practice all areas of Chemical Industry,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Chemical Industry Questions and Answers – Inorganic Chemical – Ammonium Nitrate» Next - Chemical Industry Questions and Answers – Inorganic Chemical – Fertilizer Industry 
