1. What is the molecular weight of Urea?
a) 60
b) 70
c) 80
d) 90
a
2. For which of the mentioned does Urea serve the purpose?
a) Fertilizer
b) Formaldehyde resins
c) Melamine
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. Urea-ammonium nitrate solution is regarded as which of the mentioned?
a) Nitrogen fertilizer
b) Phosphate fertilizer
c) Potassium fertilizer
d) Mixed fertilizer
a
4. Which of the mentioned statements is true?
a) Melamine is synthesized by condensation of urea molecules
b) Melamine is synthesized by thermal cracking hydrocarbons
c) Melamine is synthesized by polymerization of urea molecules
d) None of the mentioned
a
5. Ammonium carbamate decomposition results in which of the mentioned?
a) Urea
b) DDT
c) Ammonium nitrate
d) Ammonium hydroxide
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. What kind of reaction takes place when compressed ammonia and CO2 are reacted?
a) Highly Endothermic
b) Exothermic
c) Endothermic
d) None of the mentioned
b
7. Into which of the mentioned equipment are compressed NH3 and CO2 added for production of urea by Ammonia carbamate decomposition?
a) CSTR
b) Parr Reactor
c) Autoclave
d) Plug type reactor
c
8. What is the average residence time of the autoclave on continuous basis when fed with compressed ammonia and CO2?
a) 1-2 hours
b) 1.5-2 hours
c) 1.5-2.5 hours
d) 1.5-3 hours
b
9. What are the resultant compounds after reaction of compressed NH3 and CO2 in autoclave on continuous basis?
a) Urea
b) Ammonium Carbamate
c) H2O
d) All of the mentioned
d
10. In which of the mentioned equipment does further decomposition of carbamate take place?
a) Atmospheric flash drum
b) Flash evaporator
c) Distillation tower
d) Cooling tower
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Chemical Industry.
To practice all areas of Chemical Industry,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Chemical Industry Questions and Answers – Inorganic Chemical – Ammonia – 2» Next - Chemical Industry Questions and Answers – Inorganic Chemical – Urea – 2 
