1. What is IMI process in the production of phosphoric acid?
a) Wet process
b) Electric furnace process
c) Carbo-nitric process
d) Mining process
a
2. In which phosphorus industry ortho and polyphosphate are used as raw materials?
a) Nitro-phosphates production
b) Sodium tripoly-phosphate production
c) Ammonium phosphates production
d) Calcium phosphate production
b
3. In which phosphorous industry ‘acidulation’ reaction is occur?
a) Elemental phosphorus production
b) Phosphorus pentoxide production
c) Phosphoric acid production
d) Calcium phosphate production
d
4. How triple-superphosphate is made?
a) Phosphate rock+H2SO4
b) Phosphate rock+HCl
c) Phosphate rock+HNO3
d) Phosphate rock+H3PO4
d
5. Which one of mentioned below is not used as mined rock impurity in the production of phosphoric acid?
a) Aluminum
b) Silicon
c) Arsenic
d) Iron-oxides
c
6. What is ‘merseberg process’?
a) Ammonium sulphate production
b) Calcium carbonate production
c) Sodium carbonate production
d) Sodium phosphate production
b
7. In calcium phosphate production, phosphate rock lumps are crushed in which crusher?
a) Cone crusher
b) Gyratory crusher
c) Roll crusher
d) Jaw crusher
d
8. Where ‘ammonia neutralization ‘ is done?
a) To produce nitrophosphate
b) To produce ammonium sulphate
c) To produce ammonium nitrate
d) To produce ammonium phosphate
a
9. What is the quantitative requirements of sulfuric acid in production of phosphoric acid?
a) 32%
b) 93-98%
c) 42-50%
d) 20%
b
10. What is ‘X’ in the following flow chart?
a) Single effect filter
b) Travelling pan filter
c) Multiple effect filter
d) Fume scrubber
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Chemical Industry.
To practice all areas of Chemical Industry,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Chemical Industry Questions and Answers – Inorganic Chemical – Fertilizer Industry» Next - Chemical Industry Questions and Answers – Inorganic Chemical – Phosphoric Acid 
