1. Which of the mentioned is the formula of Oleum?
a) H2S2O8
b) H2S2O6
c) H2S2O7
d) H2S2O5
c
2. Which of the mentioned can be used as raw material to manufacture sulphuric acid?
a) Iron pyrites
b) Elemental Sulphur
c) Hydrogen Sulphide
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. Which of the mentioned are constituents of producer gas?
a) CO, N2, H2
b) CO, H2
c) H2, CH4, CO
d) LPG
a
4. In the manufacture of Acetylene (C2H2) by Wulff Process, Which of the following methods is involved?
a) Heating of copper tube
b) Use of Calcium Carbide
c) Reforming
d) Pyrolsis of hydrocarbons
d
Eg: From propane –  C3H8 → C2H2 + C2H4 + CH4 + CO + H2 + CO2
5. Cryogenics deal with which of the following mentioned?
a) Production and utilization of low temperatures from 0 K to 123K
b) Production and utilization of low temperatures from 0 K to 273.15 K
c) Production and utilization of high temperatures from 273.15Kto 1000K
d) Production and utilization of high temperatures from 273.15K to 500K
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. High purity oxygen in used in which of the mentioned cases?
a) Combustion
b) Medical purposes
c) Chemical reactions
d) Oxidation processes
b
7. Linde’s cycle uses which of the following effects?
a) Newton’s law of cooling
b) Fouriers law
c) Joule Thomson cooling
d) Fick’s law
c
8. The three major components that are necessary in a fertilizer are?
a) Na, K, S
b) N, P, S
c) N, Cl, K
d) N, P, K
d
9. Ammonia manufactured by Haber’s process uses which of the mentioned as catalyst?
a) Iron
b) Molybdenum
c) Titanium
d) Zinc
a
10. Which of the mentioned can be used as an explosive and a fertilizer?
a) Ammonium Carbamate
b) Urea
c) Ammonium Chloride
d) Ammonium Nitrate
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Chemical Technology.
To practice all areas of Chemical Technology,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Chemical Technology Questions and Answers – Organic Chemicals» Next - Chemical Technology Questions and Answers – Unit Operations 
