1. Dissolved salts of Ca and Mg which types of water impurity?
a) Hardness impurity
b) Soluble colour compounds
c) Insoluble matter impurity
d) Pathogenic
a
2. In which types of conditioning process, synthetic resins are used?
a) Lime-soda process
b) Chlorination
c) Ion-exchange
d) Deodorization
c
Explanation; Synthetic resins are used for cation or anion exchange in ion-exchange process of conditioning process. Activated carbon adsorption is done in decolorization and deodorization.
3. Which one are the largest users of water by industry?
a) Steel
b) Miscellaneous
c) Processing
d) Power generation
a
4. Which raw material mentioned below is not required in lime soda process?
a) Quicklime
b) Light soda ash
c) Alum
d) Oil
d
5. Which compound is added to the cation exchanger in back flow?
a) Weak acid
b) Strong acid
c) High basic solution
d) Low basic solution
b
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. What is the distillation method of obtaining fresh water from saline waters?
a) Solvent extraction
b) Reverse osmosis
c) Vapor recompression
d) Hydrocarbon hydrates
c
Single stage flash, vapour recompression, multistage flash while freezing or crystallization process is indirect refrigeration and hydrocarbon hydrates.
7. Why moderators are used in nuclear process?
a) To absorption of neutrons
b) To increase the reaction rate
c) To provide collision
d) To increase the temperature
a
8. What is the disadvantage of vapour compression?
a) Less no of evaporator
b) Less energy requirements
c) High pressure steam
d) Use of inert
c
9. Which cost is mainly appear in producing freshwater from seawater?
a) Capital cost
b) Operating cost
c) Optimum cost
d) Energy cost
d
10. Which component is responsible for killing bacteria in water?
a) Low concentration of OH-
b) High concentration of OH-
c) High concentration of acid
d) Low concentration of acid
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Chemical Industry.
To practice all areas of Chemical Industry,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Chemical Industry Questions and Answers – Inorganic Chemical – Cement and Lime» Next - Chemical Industry Questions and Answers – Inorganic Chemical – Nuclear Materials 
