1. What is the chlorine-caustic process in electrochemical industries?
a) Electrowinning
b) Electrorefining
c) Electro-separation
d) Electroplating
c
2. In which process alloy steels are produced?
a) Electric furnacing
b) Fused electrolytic
c) Gas phase electric discharge
d) Electroplating
a
3. In which electrochemical cell, exothermic changes occur?
a) Electrolysis cell
b) Volatile cell
c) Fuel cell
d) Conventional cell
b
4. Which process of electrochemical industry consists of plasma?
a) Electro organic chemical process
b) Graphite production process
c) Arc process
d) Electrorefining
c
5. Which one mentioned below is not a chemical process for endothermic reaction?
a) Pyrolysis of hydrocarbon
b) Production of hydrogen cyanide
c) Reduction of oxides
d) Chlorine-caustic separation
d
6. What is arc image furnace?
a) Photochemical application of arc
b) Mechanical application of arc
c) Chemical application of arc
d) Photochemical conversions
a
7. In which process low cost acrylonitrile is produced?
a) Arc process
b) Electro organic chemical process
c) Electrorefining
d) Electrowinning
b
8. Which raw material mentioned below is not used in the production of tetraethyl-Lead?
a) Grignard reagent
b) Ethyl chloride
c) Lead metal
d) Ethyl alcohol
d
9. How decomposition efficiency is defined?
a) Ratio of theoretical voltage to actual
b) Ratio of theoretical current to actual (one gm equivalent)
c) Ratio of equivalents produced to equivalents charged
d) Ratio of reversible voltage to actual
c
10. What is the output in the following process?
a) Tetraethyl lead
b) Ethyl lead
c) Diethyl lead
d) Triethyl lead
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Chemical Industry.
To practice all written questions on Chemical Industry,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Chemical Industry Questions and Answers – Inorganic Chemical – Nitrogen Phosphate» Next - Chemical Industry Questions and Answers – Inorganic Chemical – Graphite 
