1. Which one mentioned below is not a major industrial chemical produced by chloro-alkali industry?
a) Soda ash
b) Caustic soda
c) Chlorine
d) Ammonium carbonate
d
Soda ash(sodium carbonate), caustic soda(sodium hydroxide), chlorine(Cl2). Thus ammonium carbonate is not a chloro-alkali product.
2. Which one is dual process?
a) Na2CO3+NH4Cl
b) Na2CO3+NaCl
c) NH4Cl+Ca(OH)2
d) CaCO3+NaCl
a
3. What is the input bulk requirements for the solvay process?
a) Salt, coal and water
b) Salt, coal and limestone
c) Salt, limestone and water
d) Coal, limestone and water
b
4. In solvay process, where purified brine is pumped?
a) CO absorber tower
b) H2O absorber tower
c) NH3 absorber tower
d) Carbonation tower
c
5. What is the modification of the dual process?
a) Recovery of NH4Cl as co-product
b) Recovery of NH3 as co-product
c) Recovery of NaHCO3 as co-product
d) Recovery of NH34(NO3) as co-product
a
6. What is the disadvantage of solvay process?
a) No co-products to dispose
b) Use of low-grade brine
c) Higher salt consumption
d) Low corrosion problems
c
7. Which one is a NaOH process with no Cl2 co-product?
a) HCl-air oxidation with Fe2O3
b) HCl-air-Cl2 oxychlorination
c) HNO3-Nacl-air process
d) Na2CO3– Ca(OH)2
d
8. Where ‘denuding’ is occur_______
a) Diaphragm cell
b) Mercury cell
c) Membrane cell
d) Voltaic cell
b
Denuding reaction occurs in the mercury cell of electrolytic process of chlorine production. In denuding reaction amalgam reacts with water to produce sodium hydroxide, hydrogen and chlorine.
9. Why minor quantities of Na2CO3 required in electrolysis process?
a) For Cl2 drying
b) For high purity brine
c) For salt purification
d) For high purity depleted brine
c
10. What is ‘X’ in the following flow chart?
a) Caustic soda and NaCl
b) Only caustic soda
c) Caustic soda and NaOH
d) Caustic soda and C2
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Chemical Industry.
To practice all areas of Chemical Industry,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Chemical Industry Questions and Answers – Inorganic Chemical – Electroorganic Chemicals» Next - Chemical Industry Questions and Answers – Inorganic Chemical – Chlorine and Naoh 
