1. Which of the following is not the function of Transportation organization?
a) Organize the construction and functioning of transportation facilities and services
b) Implementing strategies to manage the demand for transportation
c) Establishing the linkage between land use strategies and transportation investments
d) Review the management of various organizations responsible for road management in the country
d
2. Which of the following is not an International Transport Organisations?
a) International Freight Forwarders Association
b) International Air Transport Association
c) International Maritime Health Association
d) International Union of Railways
c
3. Which of the following is the best way to make public transportation efficient?
a) Separate bus lanes
b) Carpooling
c) Increasing tax
d) Providing toll booths
a
4. Which administration represents the interests of truck, bus, coach and taxi operators for the transportation of people and commodities by roadway?
a) International Freight Forwarders Association
b) National Highways Authority of India
c) International Road Transport Union
d) International Shipping Federation
c
5. Which organization controls the State Road Transport Corporations?
a) International Road Transport Union
b) National Highways Authority of India
c) Association of State Road Transport Undertakings (ASTRU)
d) Association of Management Development Institutions in South Asia
c
6. The Central Institute of Road Transport (CIRT) is an institute which provides training to the trainees in state public bus services.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Traffic Engineering.
To practice all areas of Traffic Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Traffic Engineering Questions and Answers – Modes of Transportation» Next - Traffic Engineering Questions and Answers – Traffic Engineering Studies – 1 
