1. What are desire lines?
a) Illustrations on a map showing the flow of people or goods from point to another
b) Illustrations on a map showing wind direction
c) Separates two lanes
d) Separates the soldiers from the lane
d
2. Which one of the following is a disadvantage of a desire line?
a) The real distance and direction may be distorted
b) Shows volume and direction of movement
c) Can be superimposed onto a base
d) Width of lines proportional to value
a
3. Which of the following represents traffic volume from one key area to another in a desire line map?
a) Dark line
b) Circles
c) Triangles
d) Dots
a
4. Which of the following represents traffic volume from one key area to another in a route volume map?
a) Circles
b) Bars
c) Lines
d) Dots
b
5. What are traffic analysis zones?
a) Study area divided into a number of small units
b) Group of study areas
c) Points of the study area
d) Zones of maximum traffic
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. What is a zone centroid?
a) Point at which all attributes and properties are concentrated
b) Point at which traffic is maximum
c) Point at which surveyor takes data
d) Point at which study area changes
a
7. What is the assumption taken in case of zoning models?
a) All individuals have the same travel cost from the centroid to the nearest transport facility
b) All individuals have different travel cost from the centroid to the nearest transport facility
c) All zones have the same travel cost
d) Models are assumed to have constant travel cost
a
8. The intersection from outside is normally represented through ______
a) external zones
b) internal zones
c) zone centroid
d) study centre
a
9. Which of the following is not an aspect of data preparation?
a) Data correction
b) Data expansion
c) Data validation
d) Data dilation
d
10. Which of the following is not a type of data correction in the data preparation process?
a) Household size correction
b) Socio-demographic correction
c) Non-response correction
d) Input correction
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Traffic Engineering.
To practice all areas of Traffic Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Traffic Engineering Questions and Answers – Methods of Data Collection» Next - Traffic Engineering Questions and Answers – Parking Surveys – 1 
