1. As per IRC, for many days the traffic count should be taken for rural roads?
a) 2
b) 3
c) 5
d) 7
d
2. How many times should the traffic volume counts be taken in a year?
a) 3
b) 1
c) 2
d) 4
c
3. Which of the following is not a way by which traffic volume data is presented?
a) AADT
b) Variation charts
c) Traffic composition
d) Modal average
d
4. Which type of traffic volume presentation of data shows volume along various routes using bands proportional to traffic volume carried?
a) Traffic flow maps
b) Intersection flow diagram
c) Trend charts
d) Traffic composition
a
5. Which of the following type of presentation of data is useful for future expansion, design, and regulation?
a) Traffic composition
b) Trend charts
c) Traffic flow maps
d) Intersection flow diagram
b
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. What information does the Intersection flow diagram show?
a) Direction and volume of traffic at an intersection
b) Direction and volume of traffic at a flyover
c) Direction and volume of traffic at a oneway route
d) Direction and volume of traffic at a two-lane highway
a
7. In Traffic flow maps, the thickness of lines represents ______
a) Traffic volume
b) Direction of flow
c) Volume change
d) Boundary for expansion
a
8. What is thirtieth highest hourly volume?
a) Hourly volume that is exceeded only 29 times a year
b) Hourly volume that is exceeded only 30 times a year
c) Monthly volume that is exceeded only 29 times a year
d) Monthly volume that is exceeded only 30 times a year
a
9. What information does data from variation charts help to determine?
a) Peak traffic flow at various hours in a day
b) Peak traffic flow at limited hours in a day
c) Lowest traffic flow in a day
d) Traffic flow at noon
a
10. Design of transportation facilities in urban transport infrastructural projects is based on which presentation of traffic volume data?
a) Variation charts
b) Peak hour factor
c) 30th highest hourly volume
d) Trends charts
b
11. Design based on the 30th highest hourly volume is costly.
a) True
b) False
b
12. Which presentation of traffic volume data helps to plan transportation facilities for your future generations?
a) 30th highest hourly volume
b) Variation charts
c) Peak hour factor
d) Trends charts
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Traffic Engineering.
To practice all areas of Traffic Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Traffic Engineering Questions and Answers – Methods of Volume Counting» Next - Traffic Engineering Questions and Answers – Traffic Volume Studies – AADT and ADT 
