1. What is the minimum width of footpath in India for commercial areas?
a) 2m
b) 3m
c) 1.8m
d) 2.5m
d
2. What is the minimum width of cycling path?
a) 1.5m
b) 2m
c) 4m
d) 5m
b
3. Which of the following is one of the 8 climate mission of the Government of India?
a) National Mission on Sustainable Habitat
b) Nehemiah Sustainable Vision Engagement
c) National Mission on Climate Change
d) National Mission on Transportation
a
4. What is the act which refers to the ease of access to offices, public buildings, and transport infrastructure?
a) Rights of Person with Disability Act, 2016
b) Rights of Specially Abled Act, 2016
c) Disabled People Right, 2016
d) Rights of Person with Disability Act, 2015
a
5. What was the issue identified in IRC:106, 1990 (Guidelines for Capacity if Urban Roads in Plain Areas)?
a) Doesn’t address cycle infrastructure
b) Cycle as a mode was not considered
c) Parking space for NMT is absent
d) Identifies cycle as a threat
b
6. Which of the following factors does not affect the NMT network?
a) Reduction of speed of motorized vehicles
b) Merging safest and fastest route
c) Signalized paths
d) Improving visibility at intersections
c
7. What is the data source for Trip Production Pattern in an NMT plan?
a) Household Interview Data
b) Ward Map
c) Property Tax Data
d) Traffic Volume Counts
a
8. Why is Travel Demand Model required?
a) To recreate the road network and travel pattern
a) To recreate the road network only
b) To recreate the travel pattern only
c) To recreate the travel pattern and footpaths
a
9. Trip distribution in NMT is carried out based on _____
a) Pedestrian Compatibility Index
b) Cycle Compatibility Index
c) Vehicle Compatibility Index
d) Trip Compatibility Index
b
10. What is the data source for Road Network in an NMT plan?
a) Household Interview Data
b) Ward Map
c) Property Tax Data
d) Land Use Data
c
11. What is the WALK interval when the number of pedestrians is 10?
a) 4 s
b) 5.9 s
c) 6.2 s
d) 10 s
b
	                           = 3.2 + 0.27 X 10 = 5.9 s.
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Traffic Engineering.
To practice all areas of Traffic Engineering for Freshers,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Traffic Engineering Questions and Answers – Planning for Pedestrians, Cyclists and Disabled People – 1» Next - Traffic Engineering Questions and Answers – Road Characteristics – 1 
