1. Which one of the following is an interrupted facility?
a) Traffic signal
b) Stop sign
c) Yield sign
d) Basic freeway
d
2. Freeway has which magnitude as the measure of effectiveness?
a) Density
b) Speed
c) Capacity
d) Delay
a
3. What is a basic freeway segment?
a) The section between two ramps which is unaffected by weaving and diverging maneuvers
b) The section between three ramps which is unaffected by weaving and diverging maneuvers
c) The section between two ramps which is affected by weaving and diverging maneuvers
d) The section between three ramps which is affected by weaving and diverging maneuvers
a
4. In how many steps is the freeway capacity determined?
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4
c
5. Basic or theoretical capacity under ideal traffic and environmental conditions can be determined by the concept that the _____
a) flow rate equals time divided by time headway; time headway equals distance divided by speed
b) flow rate equals time multiplied to time headway; time headway equals distance divided by speed
c) flow rate equals time multiplied to time headway; time headway equals distance multiplied to speed
d) flow rate equals time added to time headway; time headway equals distance divided by speed
a
6. How is basic capacity determined by prevailing capacity?
a) Repeated observation of maximum traffic flow under peak conditions
b) Repeated observation of minimum traffic flow under peak conditions
c) Repeated observation of minimum traffic flow under ideal conditions
d) Repeated observation of maximum traffic flow under ideal conditions
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Traffic Engineering.
To practice all areas of Traffic Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Traffic Engineering Questions and Answers – Introduction to Highway Capacity» Next - Traffic Engineering Questions and Answers – Two Lane Highway Capacity 
