1. How many travel movements are present on a typical trip?
a) 5
b) 6
c) 3
d) 2
b
2. Which travel movement occurs when vehicle transfers from the through portion of trip to the remaining travel movement functions?
a) Main Movement
b) Access
c) Transition
d) Distribution
c
3. In how many groups are highways classified based on access and mobility?
a) 3
b) 4
c) 6
d) 2
b
4. Which class of highway classification provides 100% mobility?
a) Arterials
b) Collectors
c) Limited-access facilities
d) Local street
c
5. Arterials are surface facilities designed essentially for through movement and not permitting any access to abutting land.
a) True
b) False
b
6. The function of arterial can be strengthened by which of the following options?
a) Incorporating sharp curvature
b) Use of cul-de-sacs
c) Not having any residence in front of collector
d) Limiting the number of locations of entry and exit on the arterial
d
7. Coordinated signals provided for continuous progressive movement at appropriate speed strengthens the function of arterial.
a) True
b) False
a
8. Which of the following is not a primary element of the geometry of a highway section?
a) Horizontal alignment
b) Vertical alignment
c) Cross-sectional element
d) Traffic Signals
d
9. Which of the following is an important consideration for designing Horizontal alignment?
a) Social consideration
b) Aesthetics
c) Maintenance of comfortable operations
d) Superelevation
a
10. Which of the following is not an Engineering factor?
a) Topography
b) Natural barriers
c) Forecast demand volumes
d) Drainage patterns
c
11. What is the unit of Grade in a vertical alignment?
a) Meter
b) Hectare
c) Dimensionless
d) Kilograms
c
12. Which of the following is a primary design criterion for vertical curves?
a) Drainage
b) Forecast demand volumes
c) Sub-surface conditions
d) Natural barriers
a
13. Which of the following is an important consideration for designing cross-sections of a highway?
a) Superelevation
b) Topography
c) Forecast demand volumes
d) Sub-surface conditions
a
14. Cross-sections are designed every 30.5 m along the length and at the point that forms a transition.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Traffic Engineering.
To practice all areas of Traffic Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Traffic Engineering Questions and Answers – Planning for Pedestrians, Cyclists and Disabled People – 2» Next - Traffic Engineering Questions and Answers – Road Characteristics – 2 
