1. What is meant by time-in-queue delay?
a) Time between a vehicle joining the end of the queue at a signalized intersection and the time it crosses the intersection
b) Delay during which the vehicles is at rest
c) Delay caused due to resistance of other traffic
d) Time between a vehicle joining the end of the queue at an unsignalized intersection and the time it crosses that intersection
a
2. Why are the control delay caused?
a) Control devices
b) Speedometer
c) Traffic
d) deceleration to and acceleration from a stop to stopped time delay
a
3. Which of the following travel time and delay studies doesn’t require a test vehicle?
a) Floating car technique
b) Average speed technique
c) Moving vehicle technique
d) License plate observations
d
4. How is average delay time calculated in License plate method?
a) Average delay time = (Sum of all delay time) / (Number of matched license plates)
b) Average delay time = (Sum of all delay time) x (Number of matched license plates)
c) Average delay time = (Sum of all delay time) + (Number of matched license plates)
d) Average delay time = (Sum of all delay time) – (Number of matched license plates)
a
Join [email protected]
5. Which of the following is not an application of travel time and delay study?
a) Collection of rating data
b) Problem location identification
c) Economic analysis
d) Determining relation between mean speed and flow
d
6. The driver has to drive the test car above the average speed of the traffic in an average-speed technique.
a) True
b) False
b
7. In which test vehicle technique the test vehicle has to make a round trip on a test section?
a) Floating-car technique
b) Average-speed technique
c) Moving-vehicle technique
d) License plate technique
c
8. The selection of test to be a test-vehicle based or not depends upon which of the following criteria?
a) Available personnel and equipment
b) Driver’s choice
c) Type of road
d) Location of test
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Traffic Engineering.
To practice all areas of Traffic Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Traffic Engineering Questions and Answers – Underwood’s Exponential Model» Next - Traffic Engineering Questions and Answers – Floating Car Method 
