1. Which of the following equations shows the correct relationship between flow, density, and space mean speed?
a) Flow = density/space mean speed
b) Flow = space mean speed /density
c) Density = flow x space mean speed
d) Flow = density x space mean speed
d
2. On which of the following factors are flow, density, and space mean speed are not dependent?
a) Characteristics of the roadway
b) Characteristics of the vehicle
c) Topography
d) Weather
c
3. With respect to the shape of the flow-density curve, when the density reaches maximum the flow must be ______
a) Maximum
b) Infinite
c) 0
d) Minimum
c
4. On which of the following factor does mean free speed depend on??
a) Physical characteristics of highway
b) Characteristics of the roadway
c) Characteristics of the vehicle
d) Characteristics of the driver
a
5. The macroscopic approach considers which of the following factor?
a) Spacing
b) Speed
c) Flow-density relationship
d) Design
c
6. Which of the following is a model that is commonly used by the macroscopic approach?
a) Macroscopic Simulation Models
b) Mesoscopic Simulation Models
c) Greenshields model
d) Travel Demand Models
c
7. Greenberg model uses which analogy?
a) Fluid flow
b) Laws of motion
c) Secchi disk
d) Turbidity
a
8. The Greenberg model is used for which type of traffic condition?
a) Dense
b) Light
c) Uncongested
d) Unrestricted
a
9. When does the Greenshields model satisfy the boundary condition?
a) When the density is approaching zero as well as when the density is approaching the jam density kj
b) When the density is approaching infinity as well as when the density is approaching the jam density kj
c) When the density is approaching zero as well as when the density is approaching infinity
d) When the density is approaching zero as well as when the density is approaching the jam density kj
a
10. The Microscopic approach does not consider which of the following factor?
a) Spacing between vehicles
b) Flow-density relationship
c) Design
d) Speed of vehicles
b
11. Which of the following cannot be determined by the microscopic model?
a) Velocity
b) PCU
c) Flow
d) Density
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Traffic Engineering.
To practice all areas of Traffic Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Traffic Engineering Questions and Answers – Traffic Flow Element» Next - Traffic Engineering Questions and Answers – Traffic Streams, Gap and Gap Acceptance 
