1. What is the definition of Highway Capacity?
a) The minimum traffic flow that can be accommodated in a highway facility in a given time period under existing roadway and control conditions
b) The maximum traffic flow that can be accommodated in a highway facility in the future
c) The minimum traffic flow that can be accommodated in a highway facility according to data from the previous year
d) The maximum traffic flow that can be accommodated in a highway facility in a given time period under existing roadway and control conditions
d
2. How many types of highway capacity was defined by Highway Capacity Manual (1950)?
a) 2
b) 5
c) 3
d) 4
c
3. Which of the following capacity is considered as design capacity?
a) Basic capacity
b) Possible capacity
c) Practical capacity
d) Traffic capacity
c
4. Which of the following parameter is not dependent on highway capacity?
a) Class of highway
b) Lane width
c) Number of lanes
d) Gauge width
d
5. What is the capacity value for urban roads as per IRC for one-way traffic flow with two lanes?
a) 1500 PCU/hr
b) 2400 PCU/hr
c) 3600 PCU/hr
d) 4000 PCU/hr
b
6. Which of the following is not a factor affecting traffic capacity?
a) Lane width
b) Lateral clearance
c) Gradient
d) Traffic control devices
c
7. Highway capacity is independent of _____
a) demand
b) lane width
c) geometric design
d) traffic conditions
a
8. Capacity is a probabilistic measure.
a) True
b) False
a
9. What is maximum flow rate?
a) Worst 15 minutes of the peak hours
b) Worst 10 minutes of peak hours
c) Worst 30 minutes of the peak hours
d) Worst 5 minutes of the peak hours
a
10. Capacity is measured as a reasonably expected value and not the maximum flow rate observed in the facility. Why?
a) Because capacity at a given location varies from day to day
b) Because capacity at a given location doesn’t vary
c) Because capacity at a given location varies from year to year
d) Because capacity at a given location decreases simultaneously
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Traffic Engineering.
To practice all areas of Traffic Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Traffic Engineering Questions and Answers – Traffic Streams, Gap and Gap Acceptance» Next - Traffic Engineering Questions and Answers – Basic Freeway Capacity 
