1. Which of these is not a type of tense?
a) Present
b) Language
c) Past
d) Future
b
2. Which of these is not a type of present tense?
a) Simple
b) Continuous
c) Imperfect
d) Perfect
c
3. A perfect tense denotes an action which has been completed, and is in a perfect state.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Which of these statements belongs to perfect continuous tense?
a) I was loving
b) I had written
c) I had been writing
d) I shall be writing
c
5. The statement I have written a letter belongs to which of these tenses?
a) Simple present tense
b) Present perfect tense
c) Present continuous  tense
d) Present perfect continuous tense
b
6. Which of these statements belong to present continuous tense (plural)?
a) We are writing a letter.
b) She is writing a letter.
c) They were writing a letter.
d) We were writing a letter.
a
7. To which of these tenses does the following statement belong?
     We were watching television all day.
a) Simple past tense
b) Past continuous tense
c) Past perfect tense
d) Past perfect continuous tense
b
8. Fill in with past perfect tense: I _______ my homework when my uncle arrived.
a) completed
b) had completed
c) was completing
d) had been completing
b
9. Which of these is an example of simple present tense?
a) I am going to Delhi tomorrow.
b) There she goes!
c) He has just gone out.
d) I am reading the gita.
b
10. Choose the correct statement:
a) I am a student for over three years now.
b) I have been a student for over three years now.
c) I am being a student for over three years now.
d) I was a student for over three years now.
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Professional Communication.
To practice all areas of Professional Communication, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Professional Communication Questions & Answers – Prepositions of Time and Date» Next - Professional Communication Questions & Answers – The Use of Tenses 
