1. If the reported speech expresses some universal truth, habit, historical incident or permanent fact, its tense does not change even when the reporting verb is in the past tense.
a) True
b) False
a
2. Convert the following sentence in indirect speech to direct speech :
He exclaimed sadly that he was undone.
a) He said I am undone.
b) He said, “Alas ! I am undone.”
c) He said, “I am undone.”
d) He said , “Alas. I am undone.”
b
3. While changing a question into indirect speech, the reporting verb must be changed into ask, inquire or demand.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Which of these prepositions is used with inquire or demand?
a) Is
b) At
c) Of
d) On
c
5. Convert the following direct speech to indirect :
My mother said to me, “Are you going to school today?”
a) My mother asked me if I was going to school that day.
b) My mother asked me are you going to school today.
c) My mother asked me if I was going to school today.
d) My mother asked me if I am going to school today.
a
6. Which of these forms are used to report negative commands?
a) not + infinitive
b) no + infinitive
c) command + infinitive
d) object + infinitive
a
7. Which of these verbs don’t follow the object + infinitive form?
a) Beg
b) Order
c) Invite
d) Pray
d
8. Convert the following direct speech to indirect speech :
She said, “We will analyse this tomorrow.”
a) She said that they would analyse it the next day.
b) She said that we would analyse it the next day.
c) She said that they will analyse it the next day.
d) She said that we will analyse it the next day.
a
9. Convert the following direct speech to indirect :
She said, “Thank you !”
a) She thanked me.
b) She said me thank you.
c) She said thank you to me.
d) She said thank you!
a
10. Convert the following sentence in direct speech to indirect speech :
She said, “Can you read?” and I said “yes”.
a) She asked me can you read and I said yes.
b) She asked me if I could read and I said that I could.
c) She asked me can you read and I said that I could.
d) She asked me if I could read and I said yes.
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Professional Communication.
To practice all areas of Professional Communication, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Professional Communication Questions & Answers – Conversion of Direct Speech to Indirect» Next - Professional Communication Questions & Answers – Adjectivals and Adverbials 
