1. Which of these is an assertive sentence?
a) Why waste time in reading trash?
b) I wish that I were healthy again.
c) How beautiful is the rainbow!
d) Please have a look at the brochure.
b
2. Convert the affirmative sentence into a negative sentence:
Mili is prettier than Neha.
a) Neha is not as pretty as Mili.
b) Mili is not as pretty as Neha.
c) Neha is not as prettier as Mili.
d) Mili is not prettier than Neha.
a
3. Convert  the following interrogative sentence to an assertive sentence:
Who would not love his country?
a) No one loves his country.
b) Everyone loves his country.
c) Someone loves his country.
d) Everyone loves the country.
b
4. Convert  the following exclamatory sentence to an assertive sentence:
Hurrah ! We have one the match.
a) Hurrah, we have one the match.
b) We won the match.
c) We rejoice to have won the match.
d) We have won the match, hurrah.
c
5. A simple sentence can be converted into a compound sentence by enlarging a word or a phrase into a co-ordinate clause.
a) True
b) False
a
6. Convert the following simple sentence to a compound sentence :
Besides being rude, he was also arrogant.
a) He was rude and arrogant.
b) He was not only rude but also arrogant.
c) He was not only arrogant but also rude.
d) He was being rude and arrogant.
b
7. Which of these conjunctions is not used in the transformation of simple into compound sentences?
a) Alternative conjunctions
b) Illative conjunctions
c) Cumulative conjunctions
d) Complex conjunctions
d
8. Which of the conjunctions is used in the following transformation?
Simple : Besides being pretty, she is intelligent.
Compound : Not only is she pretty, but she is also intelligent.
a) Alternative conjunctions
b) Illative conjunctions
c) Cumulative conjunctions
d) Adversative conjunctions
c
9. A compound sentence can be converted into a simple sentence by substituting a participle for a finite verb.
a) True
b) False
a
10. Convert the following compound sentence into a simple sentence :
We must eat, or we cannot live.
a) We must live to eat.
b) We must eat to live.
c) We can’t live if we eat.
d) We can’t eat if we live.
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Professional Communication.
To practice MCQs on all areas of Professional Communication, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Professional Communication Questions & Answers – Types of Sentences» Next - Professional Communication Questions & Answers – Interchange of Degree of Comparisons 
