1. Indirect speech is when one quotes the exact words spoken by a speaker.
a) True
b) False
b
2. Indirect speech is also called as :
a) Reported speech
b) Quoted speech
c) Simple speech
d) Principal speech
a
3. While converting direct speech to indirect, simple present becomes a simple past.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Convert the following direct speech to indirect :
She said, “My mother is cooking food.”
a)  She said that her mother was cooking food.
b) She said that my mother was cooking food.
c) She said that her mother is cooking food.
d) She said that my mother is cooking food.
a
5. Change the speech for the following statement :
She said, “The man died in the afternoon.”
a) She said the man died in the afternoon.
b) She said that the man had died in the afternoon.
c) She had said the man died in the afternoon.
d) She said the man was dead in the afternoon.
b
6. Convert the following statement in direct speech to indirect :
He said to me, “I don’t believe you.”
a) He said he didn’t believe me.
b) He said I don’t believe you.
c) He said he don’t  believe me.
d) He said I didn’t believe you.
a
7. Change the speech in the following sentence :
She says, “I am happy to be here this evening.”
a) She said she was happy to be there that evening.
b) She said she is happy to be there that evening.
c) She said she is happy to be there that evening.
d) She said she was happy to be there this evening.
a
8. Change the direct speech to indirect :
He said to me, “Where is Neha?”
a) He asked me where is Neha.
b) He asked me where Neha was.
c) He asked me where Neha is.
d) He said where was Neha.
b
9. Convert the following direct speech to indirect :
Vineet said to Nitin, “ Go away.”
a) Vineet ordered Nitin to go away.
b) Vineet said Nitin to go away.
c) Vineet ordered Nitin go away.
d) Vineet said to Nitin go away.
a
10. Convert the following direct speech to indirect:
She said, “Alas ! I have failed.”
a) She exclaimed sadly that she failed.
b) She exclaimed sadly that she had failed.
c) She exclaimed sadly that I failed.
d) She exclaimed that she failed.
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Professional Communication.
To practice all areas of Professional Communication, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Professional Communication Questions & Answers – Interchange of Active and Passive Voice» Next - Professional Communication Questions & Answers – Conversion of Indirect Speech to Direct Speech 
