1. The passive of an active tense is formed by inserting the verb ‘to be’ into the same tense as the active verb and adding the past participle of the active verb.
a) True
b) False
a
2. Convert the following sentence in active voice to passive voice :
He is writing the book.
a) The book has been written by him.
b) The book is being written by him.
c) The book is written by him.
d) The book was written by him.
b
3. Auxiliary + infinitive combinations are made passive by using a passive infinitive.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Verbs of which of these do not form their passive with the passive infinitive?
a) Liking
b) Loving
c) Wanting
d) Advice
d
5. Verbs of which of these form their passive by using the passive form of the main verb.
a) Wanting
b) Wishing
c) Liking
d) Command
d
6. Convert the following active form to passive form :
I was determined to mortgage the car.
a) I was determined that the car should be mortgaged.
b) The car was determined to be mortgaged.
c) I was determined that car will be mortgaged.
d) I am determined that car will be mortgaged.
a
7. Which of these is not an use of the passive voice?
a) When we know about the doer of the action.
b) When the subject of the active verb would be people.
c) To avoid awkward or ungrammatical sentences.
d) When an active form would create problems for the speaker.
a
8. Which of these is not a part of speech?
a) Noun
b) Verb
c) Preposition
d) Object
d
9. In the following sentence, replace the verb by a noun :
He fought bravely.
a) He put up a brave fight.
b) A fight was put up bravely.
c) A brave fight was put up.
d) A fight is put up bravely.
a
10. In the following sentence, replace the adverb with a noun:
He watched the girl carefully.
a) He watched her with care.
b) He watched the girl with great care.
c) With care he watched her.
d) Care was taken while watching her.
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Professional Communication.
To practice all areas of Professional Communication, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Professional Communication Questions & Answers – Interchange of Degree of Comparisons» Next - Professional Communication Questions & Answers – Conversion of Direct Speech to Indirect 
