1. A simple sentence can be converted to a complex sentence by expanding a verb or phrase into a subordinate clause.
a) True
b) False
a
2. A verb in a simple sentence CANNOT be expanded to which of the following clauses?
a) Noun clause
b) Verb clause
c) Adjective clause
d) Adverb clause
b
3. The following transformation is an example under which clause?
Simple : His crime was unforgivable.
Complex : His crime was such as could not be forgiven.
a) Noun clause
b) Verb clause
c) Adjective clause
d) Adverb clause
c
4. Convert the following simple sentence into a complex sentence :
On reaching the gate you will have to turn left.
a) As soon as you reach the gate, you will have to turn left.
b) When you reach the gate take a left turn.
c) Turn left when you reach the gate.
d) Reaching the gate, take a left turn.
a
5. Convert the following complex sentence into a simple sentence:
It is sad that she died so young.
a) Her death at so early an age is sad.
b) She dying so young is sad.
c) It is sad to know that she died at an early age.
d) She dying at an early age is sad.
a
6. A complex sentence can be converted into a simple sentence by using a compound noun.
a) True
b) False
a
7. Which of these conjunctions is not used during the conversion of compound to complex sentence?
a) Cumulative conjunctions
b) Alternative conjunctions
c) Illative conjunctions
d) Principal conjunctions
d
8. Convert the following complex sentence to a compound sentence:
She is sure that he is wrong.
a) He is wrong, and of this she is sure.
b) Of this she is sure that he is wrong.
c) He Is wrong, she is sure.
d) She is sure, he is wrong.
a
9. Change the degree of comparison:
I am as pretty as her.
a) She is not prettier than me.
b) She is prettier than me.
c) I am the prettiest.
d) We both are pretty.
a
10. Change the degree of comparison:
Sachin is the best among all batsmen.
a) No other batsman is as good as Sachin.
b) Sachin is as good as any other batsman.
c) Any other batsman is better than Sachin.
d) Sachin is a good batsman.
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Professional Communication.
To practice all areas of Professional Communication Assessment Questions, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Professional Communication Questions & Answers – Transformation from One Form of Sentence to Another» Next - Professional Communication Questions & Answers – Interchange of Active and Passive Voice 
