1. How long should Calf hutches be left empty between calves to prevent disease spread?
a) 2 to 3 days
b) 3 weeks
c) 10 to 14 days
d) 1 month
c
2. What stomach is a magnet typically used in to remove metal objects that cause Hardware disease?
a) Abomasum
b) Omasum
c) Reticulum
d) Rumen
c
3. Body condition scoring is one way to measure cow health. What is the ideal score for a milking cow?
a) 1
b) 3
c) 4
d) 5
b
4. The decision of a milk hauler to accept or reject milk at the producing farm?
a) Depends on knowledge of milk quality and ability to smell off odors
b) Should always be confirmed by tests for acidity
c) Should be made the day before pickup is scheduled
d) Age of cow
a
5. For every pound of dry matter, cows should consume how much water?
a) 1 to 2 pounds
b) 4 to 5 pounds
c) 10 to 15 pounds
d) 25 to 30 pounds
b
6. Which of the following fatty acids found in milk have been associated with health benefits in humans?
a) Oleic acid
b) Conjugated Linoleum Acid
c) Butyric Acid
d) Lactic Acid
b
7. What technology destroys 90 percent of BST found in milk?
a) Pasteurization
b) Homogenization
c) Hormonization
d) Reverse osmosis
a
8. What method of manure application is best to fully utilize nutrients, reduce the risk of runoff, and lower odor complaints?
a) Injecting
b) Broadcasting
c) Surface application
d) Flood application
a
9. At refrigerated temperatures, the butter will begin to lose some of its natural flavor after how long?
a) Within 2 months
b) Within 6 months
c) Within 1 year
d) Butter will not lose its natural flavor when stored properly
b
10. Why do protein and amino acids go hand in hand?
a) Amino acids and proteins need to be found in a 2:1 ratio in all diets
b) Proteins are basically the building blocks of amino acids
c) Amino acids are basically the building blocks of protein
d) Proteins link to amino acids in bone formation
c
11. When performing a CMT test, watch for color changes and gel formation. Milk from a normal quarter does which of the following?
a) Forms a gelatinous mass clinging together in a strong reaction
b) Flows freely without change in viscosity
c) Forms small clumps in a moderate reaction
d) Turns a deep purple color
b
12. New food plate guidelines recommended how many servings of dairy products per day?
a) 5
b) 2
c) 4
d) 3
d
13. What disease is caused by a worm that is taken up as larvae by cattle eating grass, penetrates the gut, and eventually matures to an adult form in the respiratory tract?
a) Tuberculosis
b) Heartworm
c) Trichinosis
d) Lungworm
d
14. Which of these is a good nutritional strategy to maintain milk production in hot weather?
a) Feed more grain
b) Increase protein concentration
c) Add more fat
d) Milk slower
c
15. There are four classes of milk under federal orders and they provide for what?
a) Classification is according to the relative safety of each class
b) Payment for milk is according to its quality
c) Payment for milk is according to its cost of production
d) Payment for milk is according to its end use
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Dairy Engineering.
To practice all areas of Dairy Engineering Problems, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Dairy Engineering Questions and Answers – Dairy Facts – 2» Next - Dairy Engineering Questions and Answers – Dairy Facts – 4 
