1. Statement related to the process of evaporation that is incorrect is?
a) Evaporation occurs at any temperature
b) Evaporation takes place within liquid
c) Temperature may change during evaporation
d) No bubbles are formed in liquid during evaporation
b
2. Rate of evaporation is______
a) directly proportional to temperature of liquid
b) inversely proportional to temperature of liquid
c) independent of temperature of liquid
d) directly proportional to humidity of surrounding air
a
3. Rate of evaporation increases as?
a) exposed surface area of liquid increases
b) exposed surface area of liquid decreases
c) movement of air above surface of liquid decreases
d) atmospheric pressure increases
b
4. Rate of evaporation decreases as?
a) temperature increases
b) humidity of surrounding air increases
c) movement of air above surface of liquid increases
d) atmospheric pressure decreases
b
5. Which of the following factors do not affect the rate of evaporation?
a) Temperature of liquid
b) Humidity of surrounding air
c) Depth of liquid
d) Surface of liquid
c
6. Evaporation occurs only _____
a) after boiling
b) after extreme cooling
c) at surface of a liquid
d) if boiling occurs at atmospheric pressure
c
7. Compounds evaporating easily and giving off a smell are?
a) ionic compounds
b) covalent bonds
c) metallic bonds
d) dative bonds
b
8. When heating begins in miscible solutions, vapors formed will be?
a) of liquid lower in boiling point
b) of liquid higher in boiling point
c) vapors will be of both liquids with a higher concentration of liquid having low boiling point
d) collected in a gas syringe
c
9. Evaporation of solution of CuSO4 helps in?
a) making it concentrated
b) crystallization of CuSO4
c) evaporation of salt CuSO4
d) concentration and crystallization
d
10. Crystallization, evaporation and distillation are a means of?
a) separating soluble substances in solution
b) separating insoluble substances in solutions
c) separating filtrate from solution
d) concentration
a
11. Concentration is different than drying.
a) True
b) False
a
12. Which of the following is not the reason for the concentration of food liquids?
a) reduce the cost of drying
b) induce crystallization
c) reduce costs for storage and transportation
d) increase water activity in order to increase microbiological and chemical
d
13. Evaporation in dairy industry is a preliminary step to which of the following process?
a) Drying
b) Flavoring
c) Watering
d) Pasteurization
a
14. Evaporation in dairy industry is done under __________
a) Vacuum
b) Heater
c) Dryer
d) Pasteurizer
a
15. Which evaporators can be used when a low degree of concentration is required?
a) Falling film  evaporator
b) Circular type evaporator
c) Tubular type evaporator
d) Plate type evaporator
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Dairy Engineering.
To practice all areas of Dairy Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Dairy Engineering Questions and Answers – Membrane Filter – 2» Next - Dairy Engineering Questions and Answers – Evaporator – 2 
