1. Homogenization reduce the size of fat globules to which size?
a) Less than 2µ
b) Less than 3µ
c) Less than 4µ
d) Less than 5µ
a
2. Which of the following is the effect of homogenization on the appearance of milk?
a) Dusty appearance
b) Yellowish appearance
c) Whitish appearance
d) Blackish appearance
c
3. Homogenization has which of the following effects on the physiology of nutrition of milk?
a) Improved digestibility
b) Reduced digestibility
c) Cholesterol
d) Sugar
a
4. Which of the following does not denotes the flavor profile of homogenized milk?
a) Richer than unhomogenized milk
b) Smoother than unhomogenized milk
c) Creamier than unhomogenized milk
d) Bitter
d
5. Homogenized milk show sensitivity to which enzyme?
a) Lipases
b) Tryptases
c) Pepsin
d) Oxyin
a
6. Which of the following packaging material should be used in order to avoid off flavor formation in homogenized milk?
a) Transparent Glass bottles
b) Transparent bags
c) Opaque containers
d) Transparent containers
c
7. Storage of homogenized milk may lead to which of the following development?
a) Sediment development
b) Fat development
c) Protein development
d) Cream layer development
a
8. In order to prevent sedimentation in homogenized milk which of the following measure prove effective?
a) Heating
b) Pasteurization
c) Concentration of milk
d) Filtration/clarification of milk prior to homogenization
d
9. The bacterial counts of milk will _______ after homogenization.
a) Increase
b) Decrease
c) Remain same
d) First increase then decrease
a
10. The milk after homogenization will not be suitable for the production of semi-hard or hard cheeses due to which of the following reasons?
a) Too soft coagulum
b) Too hard coagulum
c) Off flavor
d) Bitter taste
a
11. Homogenization in which the main body of skim milk is not homogenized, but only the cream together with a small proportion of skim milk is homogenized is called?
a) Complete homogenization
b) Partial homogenization
c) Concentrate homogenization
d) Pasteurized homogenization
b
12. Main function of first stage of homogenization is?
a) Fat globule reduction
b) Separation of clusters of fat into individual fat molecules
c) Oxidation
d) Off flavor development
a
13. Main function of Second stage of homogenization is?
a) Fat globule reduction
b) Separation of clusters of fat into individual fat molecules
c) Oxidation
d) Off flavor development
b
14. Lack of homogenization leads to which of the following developments?
a) Cream layer development
b) Protein development
c) Astringency development
d) Increased fat content
a
15. Which of the following factors does not contribute to enhanced stability of homogenized milk?
a) Decrease in the mean diameter of the fat globules
b) Decrease in the size distribution of the fat globules
c) Increase in density of the globules
d) Decrease in density of the globules
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Dairy Engineering.
To practice all areas of Dairy Engineering for Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Dairy Engineering Questions and Answers – Homogenizer – 1» Next - Dairy Engineering Questions and Answers – Membrane Filter – 1 
