1. When discussing feed mixers, what is the range of manufacturers recommended mixing times?
a) 1-2 minutes
b) 3-6 minutes
c) 10-15 minutes
d) 7-9 minutes
b
2. The letters FSIS stand for what?
a) Food Service and Inspection Safety
b) Free State Inspection Service
c) Food Sanitation and Inquiry Service
d) Food Safety and Inspection Service
d
3. What do the letters FARAD stand for?
a) Food Animal Resistance Activity Database
b) Food Animal Residue Avoidance Data
c) Food Animal Resistance Activity Data
d) Food Animal Residue Avoidance Databank
d
4. What bacterium causes cattle tuberculosis (TB)?
a) Mycobacterium canine
b) Mycobacterium ovius
c) Mycobacterium avious
d) Mycobacterium bovis
d
5. Oxytocin causes what to happen in a dairy cow?
a) Milk letdown
b) Uterine contractions
c) Milk letdown and urine contraction
d) Pregnancy
c
6. How frequently should an average cow freshen?
a) Once every 24 months
b) Once every 12 months
c) Once every 20 months
d) Only once in her lifetime
b
7. What do the letters NRC stand for?
a) National Research Company
b) National Research Council
c) National Research Chapter
d) National Rehabilitation Center
b
8. When discussing nutrition, what does NPN stand for?
a) Nonprotein nitrogen
b) Normal protein necessities
c) Natural protein nitrogen
d) No protein in nitrogen
a
9. Corn silage, stored in upright, top-unloading silos, should be chopped at what percent moisture?
a) 72 to 75 percent moisture
b) 82 to 85 percent moisture
c) 92 to 95 percent moisture
d) 62 to 65 percent moisture
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Dairy Engineering.
To practice Tough questions and answers on all areas of Dairy Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Dairy Engineering Questions and Answers – Diseases and Deficiency – 2» Next - Dairy Engineering Questions and Answers – Diseases and Deficiency – 4 
