1. Why is the reliability of a material an important property?
a) To maintain material cost
b) To maintain the quality of material
c) To obtain old stock material
d) To consider supplementary material
b
2. Which of the following is an economic consideration of a material?
a) Structure
b) Appearance
c) Availability
d) Strain
c
3. Porosity is the quantity of void space in a structure.
a) True
b) False
a
4. What is a supplementary operation requirement?
a) The availability of extra material if the original material is damaged
b) A material that requires supplementary operations to be used in manufacturing
c) The operations that are not necessary to perform
d) Operations that have to be avoided
b
5. Which of the following is a technological factor of materials?
a) Castability
b) Melting point
c) Availability
d) Stress
a
6. The dimension of material is considered to be a _____________ property.
a) physical
b) technological
c) mechanical
d) economic
a
7. No matter what the properties of a material are, cost should be the most vital consideration in the selection of materials.
a) True
b) False
b
8. What is the foamability of a material?
a) The act of increasing the amount of material
b) The ability to make a soldered joint
c) Anti-foaming agents in a material
d) The amount of capability to produce foam
d
9. Is the standardization of materials advantageous?
a) No, it is harmful to the aircraft
b) Only for the wheels of the aircraft
c) Yes, it is advantageous
d) It has never been done before
c
10. Which of the following factors is least considered in the selection of materials for aircraft construction?
a) Color
b) Melting point
c) Weldability
d) Elasticity
a
11. What is the machinability of a material?
a) Lack of material
b) Ease of cutting a material
c) Shining the material
d) Shrinking the material
b
12. Which cost of the Shop equipment required should be considered?
a) Comparative cost
b) Initial cost
c) Maintenance cost
d) Maintenance cost plus the initial cost
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Aerospace Materials and Processes.
To practice all areas of Aerospace Materials and Processes for Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Aerospace Materials and Processes Questions and Answers – Materials Selection – Properties of Flight Vehicle Materials» Next - Aerospace Materials and Processes Questions and Answers – Materials Selection – Materials Used in Construction of Aircraft 
