1. In a reciprocating steam engine, which of the following forms a kinematic link ?
a) cylinder and piston
b) piston rod and connecting rod
c) crank shaft and flywheel
d) flywheel and engine frame
c
2. The motion of a piston in the cylinder of a steam engine is an example of
a) completely constrained motion
b) incompletely constrained motion
c) successfully constrained motion
d) none of the mentioned
a
3. The motion transmitted between the teeth of gears in mesh is
a) sliding
b) rolling
c) may be rolling or sliding depending upon the shape of teeth
d) partly sliding and partly rolling
d
4. The cam and follower without a spring forms a
a) lower pair
b) higher pair
c) self closed pair
d) force closed pair
c
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
5. A ball and a socket joint forms a
a) turning pair
b) rolling pair
c) sliding pair
d) spherical pair
d
6. The lead screw of a lathe with nut forms a
a) sliding pair
b) rolling pair
c) screw pair
d) turning pair
c
7. When the elements of the pair are kept in contact by the action of external forces, the pair is said to be a
a) lower pair
b) higher pair
c) self closed pair
d) force closed pair
d
8. Which of the following is a turning pair ?
a) Piston and cylinder of a reciprocating steam engine
b) Shaft with collars at both ends fitted in a circular hole
c) Lead screw of a lathe with nut
d) Ball and socket joint
b
9. A combination of kinematic pairs, joined in such a way that the relative motion between the links is completely constrained, is called a
a) structure
b) mechanism
c) kinematic chain
d) inversion
c
10. The relation between the number of pairs ( p ) forming a kinematic chain and the number of links (l) is
a) l = 2p – 2
b) l = 2p – 3
c) l = 2p – 4
d) l = 2p – 5
c
                                         l = 2 p – 4
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Machine Kinematics.
To practice all areas of Machine Kinematics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Machine Kinematics Questions and Answers – Bifilar and Trifilar Suspension» Next - Machine Kinematics Questions and Answers – Simple Mechanisms – 2 
