1. A type-writer constitutes a machine.
a) True
b) False
b
2. The method of obtaining different mechanisms by fixing in turn different links in a kinematic chain, is known as
a) structure
b) machine
c) inversion
d) compound mechanism
c
3. If the number of links in a mechanism are equal to l, then the number of possible inversions are equal to
a) l – 2
b) l – 1
c) l
d) l + 1
c
4. Which of the following statement is correct as regard to the difference between a machine and a structure?
a) The parts of a machine move relative to one another, whereas the members of a structure do not move relative to one another.
b) The links of a machine may transmit both power and motion, whereas the members of a structure transmit forces only.
c) A machine transforms the available energy into some useful work, whereas in a structure no energy is transformed into useful work.
d) all of the mentioned
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
5. A kinematic chain is known as a mechanism when
a) none of the links is fixed
b) one of the links is fixed
c) two of the links are fixed
d) none of the mentioned
b
6. The inversion of a mechanism is
a) changing of a higher pair to a lower pair
b) turning its upside down
c) obtained by fixing different links in a kinematic chain
d) obtained by reversing the input and output motion
c
7. The Grubler’s criterion for determining the degrees of freedom (n) of a mechanism having plane motion is
a) n = (l – 1) – j
b) n = 2(l – 1) – 2j
c) n = 3(l – 1) – 2j
d) n = 4(l – 1) – 3j
c
8. The mechanism forms a structure, when the number of degrees of freedom (n) is equal to
a) 0
b) 1
c) 2
d) -1
a
9. In a four bar chain or quadric cycle chain
a) each of the four pairs is a turning pair
b) one is a turning pair and three are sliding pairs
c) two are turning pairs and two are sliding pairs
d) three are turning pairs and one is a sliding pair
a
10. The mechanism in which two are turning pairs and two are sliding pairs, is called a
a) double slider crank chain
b) elliptical trammel
c) scotch yoke mechanism
d) all of the mentioned
d
a) elliptical trammel
b) scotch yoke mechanism
c) oldham’s coupling
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Machine Kinematics.
To practice all areas of Machine Kinematics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Machine Kinematics Questions and Answers – Kinematic Chain» Next - Machine Kinematics Questions and Answers – Mechanism – 2 
