1. Match list I with list II
   List I                                                  List II
A. Law of correct steering                               1. f = 3(n – 1) – 2j
B. Displacement relation of Hook’e joint                 2. x = R[ (1 – cosϴ) + sin2ϴ/2n].
C. Relation between kinematic pairs and links            3. cotɸ – cotɸ = c/b
D. Displacement equation of reciprocating engine piston  4. tanϴ = tanɸ cosα
a) A-1,B-4,C-3,D-2
b) A-1,B-2,C-3,D-4
c) A-3,B-4,C-1,D-2
d) A-3,B-2,C-1,D-4
c
 Displacement relation of Hook’e joint   – tanϴ = tanɸ cosα
 Relation between kinematic pairs and links – f = 3(n – 1) – 2j
 Displacement equation of reciprocating engine piston – x = R[ (1 – cosϴ) + sin2ϴ/2n].
2. Consider the following statements regarding motions in machines:
1. Tangential acceleration is a function of angular velocity and the radial acceleration is a function of angular acceleration.
2. The resultant acceleration of a point A with respect to a point B on a rotating link is perpendicular to AB.
3. The direction of the relative velocity of a point A with respect to a point B on a rotating link is perpendicular.
Which of these statements is/are correct?
a) 1 alone
b) 2 and 3
c) 1 and 2
d) 3 alone
d
3.The speed of driving shaft of a Hooke’s Joint of angle 19.50 is 500 r.p.m. The maximum speed of the driven shaft is nearly
a) 168 r.p.m.
b) 444 r.p.m.
c) 471 r.p.m.
d) 531 r.p.m.
d
4. In a slider crank mechanism. the maximum acceleration of slider is obtained when the crank is
a) at the inner dead centre position
b) at the outer dead centre position
c) exactly midway position between the two dead centres
d) slightly in advance of the midway position between the two dead centres
b
5. In a shaper machine, the mechanism for tool feed is
a) Geneva mechanism
b) Whitworth mechanism
c) Ratchet and Pawl mechanism
d) Ward Leonard system
c
6. The instantaneous centre of rotation of a rigid thin disc rolling without slip on a plane rigid surface is located at
a) the centre of the disc
b) an infinite distance perpendicular to the plane surface
c) the point of contact
d) the point on the circumference situated vertically opposite to the contact point
a
7. Match list I with list II
   List I                                                  List II
A. Sliding pair						1. A road roller rolling over the ground
B. Revolute pair					2. Crank shaft in a journal bearing in an engine
C. Rolling pair						3. Ball and socket joint
D. Spherical pair					4. Piston and cylinder
							5. Nut and screw
a) A-5,B-2,C-4,D-3
b) A-4,B-3,C-1,D-2
c) A-5,B-3,C-4,D-2
d) A-4,B-2,C-1,D-3
d
 Revolute pair – Crank shaft in a journal bearing in an engine
 Rolling pair	– A road roller rolling over the ground
 Spherical pair – Ball and socket joint.
8. Slider crank chain is an inversion of the four bar mechanism.
a) True
b) False
a
9. f = 3 (n – 1) – 2j. In the Gruebler’s equation for planer mechanisms given, j is the
a) Number of mobile links
b) Number of links
c) Number of lower pairs
d) Length of the longest link
c
10. Which of the following are examples of forced closed kinematic pairs?
1. Cam and roller mechanism
2. Door closing mechanism
3. Slider crank mechanism
4. Automotive clutch operating mechanism
Select the correct answer using the codes given below:
a) 1,2 and 4
b) 1 and 3
c) 2,3 and 4
d) 1,2,3 and 4
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Machine Kinematics.
To practice all areas of Machine Kinematics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Machine Kinematics Questions and Answers – Acceleration in Mechanisms» Next - Machine Kinematics Questions and Answers – Acceleration in the Slider Crank Mechanism & Coriolis Component 
