1. The two parallel and coplaner shafts are connected by gears having teeth parallel to the axis of the shaft. This arrangement is known as
a) spur gearing
b) helical gearing
c) bevel gearing
d) spiral gearing
a
2. The arrangement is called bevel gearing, when two __________ are connected by gears.
a) tension in the tight side of the belt
b) tension in the slack side of the belt
c) sum of the tensions on the tight side and slack side of the belt
d) average tension of the tight side and slack side of the belt
a
3. When two non-intersecting and non-coplaner shafts are connected by gears,the arrangement is known as helical gearing.
a) True
b) False
b
4. The gears are termed as medium velocity gears, if their peripheral velocity is
a) 1-3 m/s
b) 3-15 m/s
c) 15-30 m/s
d) 30-50 m/s
b
5. An imaginary circle which by pure rolling action, gives the same motion as the actual gear, is called
a) addendum circle
b) dedendum circle
c) pitch circle
d) clearance circle
c
Dedendum circle is the circle drawn through the bottom of the teeth. It is also called root circle.
Pitch circle  is an imaginary circle which by pure rolling action, would give the same motion as the actual gear.
6. The size of a gear is usually specified by
a) pressure angle
b) circular pitch
c) diametral pitch
d) pitch circle diameter
d
7. The radial distance of a tooth from the pitch circle to the bottom of the tooth is called
a) dedendum
b) addendum
c) clearance
d) working depth
a
Addendum is the radial distance of a tooth from the pitch circle to the top of the tooth.
8. The addendum is the radial distance of tooth from the pitch circle to the top of the tooth.
a) True
b) False
a
Addendum is the radial distance of a tooth from the pitch circle to the top of the tooth.
9. The working depth of a gear is radical distance from the
a) pitch circle to the bottom of a tooth
b) pitch circle to the top of a tooth
c) top of a tooth to the bottom of a tooth
d) addendum circle to the clearance circle
d
10. The radial distance from the top of a tooth to the bottom of a tooth in a meshing gear, is called
a) dedendum
b) addendum
c) clearance
d) working depth
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Machine Kinematics.
To practice all areas of Machine Kinematics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Machine Kinematics Questions and Answers – Toothed Gearing – 2» Next - Machine Kinematics Questions and Answers – Law of Gearing – 2 
