1. What is the direction of velocity of a point in a link relative to another point on the same link rotating in a specific direction.
a) Perpendicular to line joining both the links
b) Parallel to line joining both the links
c) Perpendicular to the surface of the link
d) Parallel to the surface of the link
a
2. The direction of velocity is parallel if the rotation is anticlockwise and perpendicular to the line joining links if the rotation is clockwise.
a) True
b) False
b
3. What is the correct representation of velocity of point A with respect to B in a link?
a) Vab
b) Vba
c) Va-b
d) Vb-a
a
4. What is the velocity of point C with respect to A in the given figure?
a) Perpendicular to line joining BC
b) Perpendicular to line joining AC
c) Parallel to line joining BC
d) Parallel to line joining AC
b
5. Which type of pair formed by two elements which are so connected that one is constrained to turn or revolve about a fixed axis of another element?
a) Turning pair
b) Rolling pair
c) Sliding pair
d) Higher pair
a
6. Which of the following is a lower pair?
a) Pulleys in belt drive
b) Cam and follower
c) Belt drive
d) Ball and socket joint
d
7. In a lifting machine, the effort required to lift loads of 200N and 300N were 50N and 60N respectively. If the velocity ratio of the machine is 20 determine effort loss in friction at 200 N.
a) 30 N
b) 35 N
c) 40 N
d) 45 N
d
Effort lost in friction, FP = P – W/V.R. = 60 – 300/20 = 45 N.
8. In a lifting machine, the effort required to lift loads of 200N and 300N were 50N and 60N respectively. If the velocity ratio of the machine is 20 determine maximum efficiency which can be expected from this machine.
a) 30 %
b) 40 %
c) 50 %
d) 60 %
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Machine Kinematics.
To practice all areas of Machine Kinematics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Machine Kinematics Questions and Answers – Relative Velocity of Two Bodies Moving in Straight Lines» Next - Machine Kinematics Questions and Answers – Velocity of a Point on a Link by Relative Velocity Method 
