1. The acceleration of a particle at any instant has two components, radial component and tangential component. These two components will be
a) parallel to each other
b) perpendicular to each other
c) inclined at 450
d) opposite to each other
b
2. The centre of gravity of a coupler link in a four bar mechanism will experience
a) no acceleration
b) only linear acceleration
c) only angular acceleration
d) both linear and angular acceleration
d
3. When a point moves along a straight line, its acceleration will have
a) radial component only
b) tangential component only
c) coriolis component only
d) radial and tangential components both
b
The centripetal or radial component, is perpendicular to the velocity of the particle at the given instant.
4. When a point at the end of a link moves with constant angular velocity, its acceleration will have
a) radial component only
b) tangential component only
c) coriolis component only
d) radial and tangential components both
a
 The tangential component, is parallel to the velocity of the particle at the given instant.
5. In a shaper mechanism, the coriolis component of acceleration does not exists.
a) True
b) False
b
6. The tangential component of acceleration of the slider with respect to the coincident point on the link is called coriolis component of acceleration.
a) True
b) False
a
7. The coriolis component of acceleration acts
a) along the sliding surface
b) perpendicular to the sliding surface
c) at 450 to the sliding surface
d) parallel to the sliding surface
b
8. The coriolis component of acceleration is taken into account for
a) slider crank mechanism
b) four bar chain mechanism
c) quick return motion mechanism
d) all of the mentioned
c
9. The coriolis component of acceleration depends upon
a) velocity of slider
b) angular velocity of the link
c) all of the mentioned
d) none of the mentioned
c
10. A body in motion will be subjected to coriolis acceleration when that body is
a) in plane rotation with variable velocity
b) in plane translation with variable velocity
c) in plane motion which is a resultant of plane translation and rotation
d) restrained to rotate while sliding over another body
d
11. A slider moves at a velocity v on a link revolving at ωrad/s. The coriolis component of acceleration is
a) ωv
b) 2ωv
c) ω2v
d) 2ωv2
b
12. The coriolis component of acceleration leads the sliding velocity by
a) 450
b) 900
c) 1350
d) 1800
b
13. The sense of coriolis component 2ωv is same as that of the relative velocity vector v rotated at
a) 450 in the direction of rotation of the link containing the path
b) 450 in the direction opposite to the rotation of the link containing the path
c) 900 in the direction of rotation of the link containing the path
d) 1800 in the direction opposite to the rotation of the link containing the path
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Machine Kinematics.
To practice all areas of Machine Kinematics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Machine Kinematics Questions and Answers – Linear Velocity – 2» Next - Machine Kinematics Questions and Answers – Relation Between Linear Motion and Angular Motion 
