1. The approximate straight line mechanism is a
a) 4 bar linkage
b) 6 bar linkage
c) 8 bar linkage
d) 3 bar linkage
a
2. Open pairs are those which have
a) point or line contact between the two elements when in motion
b) surface contact between the two elements when in motion
c) elements of pairs not held together mechanically
d) two elements that permit relative motion
c
Two elements held together mechanically form a closed pair.
3. Peaucellier mechanism has
a) 8 links
b) 6 links
c) 4 links
d) 5 links
a
Hart mechanism has 6 links.
4. Hart mechanism has
a) 8 links
b) 6 links
c) 4 links
d) 5 links
b
Peaucellier mechanism has 8 links.
Join [email protected]
5. A chain comprises of 5 links having 5 joints. Is it kinematic chain?
a) Yes
b) No
c) It is a marginal case
d) None of the mentioned
b
L = 2/3 (J + 2),
which is not satisfied in this case.
6. In the following equation [ L = 2/3(J + 2)] to determine whether or not the given chain in kinematic, higher pair is treated equivalent to
a) two lower pairs and an additional links
b) two higher pairs and two additional links
c) one lower pairs and two additional links
d) none of the mentioned
a
If one of the links of the constrained chain is fixed, it results into mechanism.
7. The main disadvantage of the sliding pair is that it is
a) bulky
b) difficult to manufacture
c) wears rapidly
d) both a and c
d
8. For a kinematic chain to be considered as mechanism
a) two links should be fixed
b) one link should be fixed
c) none of the links should be fixed
d) there is no such criterion
b
9. An eccentric sheave pivoted at one point rotates and transmits oscillatory motion to a link whose one end is pivoted and other end is connected to it. This mechanism has
a) 2 links
b) 3 links
c) 4 links
d) 5 links
c
10. Whitworth quick return mechanism is obtained by inversion of
a) slider crank mechanism
b) kinematic chain
c) five link mechanism
d) roller cam mechanism
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Machine Kinematics.
To practice all areas of Machine Kinematics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Machine Kinematics Questions and Answers – Application of Kutzbach Criterion to Plane Mechanisms» Next - Machine Kinematics Questions and Answers – Inversion of Mechanism 
