1. In a simple gear train, if the number of idle gears is odd, then the motion of driven gear will
a) be same as that of driving gear
b) be opposite as that of driving gear
c) depend upon the number of teeth on the driving gear
d) none of the mentioned
a
2. The train value of a gear train is
a) equal to velocity ratio of a gear train
b) reciprocal of velocity ratio of a gear train
c) always greater than unity
d) always less than unity
b
3. When the axes of first and last gear are co-axial, then gear train is known as
a) simple gear train
b) compound gear train
c) reverted gear train
d) epicyclic gear train
c
                    When there are more than one gear on a shaft, as shown in Fig. 13.2, it is called a compound train.  
4. In a clock mechanism, the gear train used to connect minute hand to hour hand, is
a) epicyclic gear train
b) reverted gear train
c) compound gear train
d) simple gear train
b
5. In a gear train, when the axes of the shafts, over which the gears are mounted, move relative to a fixed axis, is called
a) simple gear train
b) compound gear train
c) reverted gear train
d) epicyclic gear train
d
When the axes of the first gear (i.e. first driver) and the last gear (i.e. last driven or follower) are co-axial, then the gear train is known as reverted gear train.
When there are more than one gear on a shaft, as shown in Fig. 13.2, it is called a compound train of gear.
6. A differential gear in an automobile is a
a) simple gear train
b) epicyclic gear train
c) compound gear train
d) none of the mentioned
b
7. A differential gear in automobilies is used to
a) reduce speed
b) assist in changing speed
c) provide jerk-free movement of vehicle
d) help in turning
d
8. The gear train usually employed in clocks is a
a) reverted gear train
b) simple gear train
c) sun and planet gear
d) differential gear
a
9. The working depth of an involute gear is equal to
a) addendum
b) dedendum
c) addendum + dedendum
d) 2 x addendum
d
10. Tooth thickness on pitch line of involute gear in terms of module (m) is equal to
a) 1.157 m
b) 1.167 m
c) 2 m
d) 1.5708
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Machine Kinematics.
To practice all areas of Machine Kinematics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Machine Kinematics Questions and Answers – Law of Gearing – 2» Next - Machine Kinematics Questions and Answers – Types of Gear Trains 
