1. Match list I with list II
	List I					List II
A. Quick return mechanism		     1. Lathe
B. Apron mechanism			     2. Milling machine
C. Indexing mechanism			     3. Shaper
D. Regulating wheel 			     4. Centreless grinding
a) A-3,B-2,C-1,D-4
b) A-2,B-3,C-4,D-1
c) A-4,B-2,C-3,D-1
d) A-3,B-1,C-2,D-4
d
Apron mechanism – Lathe
Indexing mechanism – Milling machine
Regulating wheel – Centreless grinding
2. A point on a link connecting a double slider crank chain will trace a
a) straight line
b) circle
c) parabola
d) ellipse
d
3. A wheel is rolling on a straight level track with a uniform velocity ‘v’. The instantaneous velocity of a point on the wheel lying at the mid-point of a radius
a) varies between 3 v/2 and -v/2
b) varies between v/2 and -v/2
c) varies between 3 v/2 and -v/2
d) does not vary and is equal to v
b
4. A four-bar chain has
a) all turning pairs
b) one turning pair and the others are sliding pairs
c) one sliding pair and the others are turning pairs
d) all sliding pairs
a
5. The mechanism in a shaping machine is
a) a closed 4-bar chain having 6 revolute pairs
b) a closed 6-bar chain having 6 revolute pairs
c) a closed 4-bar chain having 2 revolute and 2 sliding pairs
d) an inversion of single slider crank chain
d
6. The number of inversions of a slider crank chain is
a) 6
b) 5
c) 4
d) 3
c
7. Which of the following is an inversion of single slider crank chain?
a) Elliptical Trammel
b) Hand Pump
c) Oldham’s Coupling
d) Scotch Yoke
b
8. Which of the following are the inversions of double slider crank chain?
1. Oldhan coupling
2. Whitworth quick return mechanism
3. Beam engine mechanism
4. Elliptical Trammel mechanism
The correct answer codes are
a) 1 and 2
b) 1 and 4
c) 2, 3 and 4
d) 1, 2 and 3
b
Whitworth quick return mechanism is an inversion of single slider crank chain. Beam engine mechanism is an inversion of 4-bar linkage.
9. Which of the following is an inversion of single slider crank chain?
a) Beam engine
b) Watt’s indicator mechanism
c) Elliptical Trammel
d) Oscillating cylinder engine
d
10. Oldham’s coupling is used to connect two shafts which are
a) intersecting
b) parallel
c) perpendicular
d) co-axial
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Machine Kinematics.
To practice all areas of Machine Kinematics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Machine Kinematics Questions and Answers – Four Bar Chain or Quadric Cycle Chain» Next - Machine Kinematics Questions and Answers – Single Slider Crank Chain and its Inversions – 1 
