1. Which of these is not an effect of superheat in suction vapour?
a) increase in refrigeration effect
b) increase in compression work
c) decrease the capacity of compressor per ton of refrigeration
d) condenser size decreases
d
2. The COP of the cycle may increase or decrease or remain unchanged depending upon the range of pressure and the degree of superheating.
a) True
b) False
a
3. In which case will the refrigeration effect will not increase and the COP of cycle with superheated vapour in suction phase will be less than the COP of ideal cycle?
a) Superheating the vapour from state 1 to 1′
b) Superheating the vapour from state 1 to 2
c) Superheating the vapour from state 1′ to 2′
d) COP always increases when superheating vapour in suction vapour
a
4. Which one of the following is not effect of liquid sub cooling?
a) increase the refrigeration effect
b) reduce the piston displacement
c) increase the COP
d) increase the compressor power per ton of refrigeration
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
5. Which one of the following is not effect of change in suction pressure?
a) reduces the net refrigeration effect
b) reduces the mass flow rate of refrigerant per ton of refrigeration
c) reduces the COP
d) increases the compressor power per ton of refrigeration
b
6. Effect of high side pressure or discharge pressure or condenser pressure is to reduce the COP of the cycle.
a) True
b) False
a
7. Heat rejected in the condenser increases by an amount equal to, when vapour in the suction vapour is superheated?
a) H2 – H2′
b) H2 + H2′
c) H2′ – H2
d) H2′ + H2
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Refrigeration & Air Conditioning.
To practice all areas of Refrigeration & Air Conditioning, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Refrigeration Questions and Answers – Actual VCR Cycle» Next - Refrigeration Questions and Answers – Effect of Various Parameters on VCR System – 2 
