1. What is right about the flammability of halo-carbon refrigerants?
a) They possess low flammable properties
b) They possess incredibly high flammable properties
c) They are not flammable
d) They possess little flammable properties
c
2. What is right about the explosive properties of halo-carbon refrigerants?
a) They are not flammable
b) They possess incredibly high explosive properties
c) They possess low explosive properties
d) They possess low explosive properties
a
3. In what proportion when Ammonia mixed with air becomes explosive?
a) 10 – 15 % gas by volume
b) 16 – 25 % gas by volume
c) 10 – 15 % gas by weight
d) 16 – 25 % gas by weight
a
4. By what ratio, R – 22 has more solubility in water than R – 12?
a) 2:1
b) 4:1
c) 1:2
d) 3:1
d
5. A wetted cloth is put at the point of the leak in ammonia refrigeration plants.
a) False
b) True
b
6. What is the ability of refrigerant to mix with oil called?
a) Toxicity
b) Flammability
c) Miscibility
d) Solubility of water
c
7. Among the following refrigerants, which is having relatively higher miscibility?
a) Ammonia
b) R – 12
c) Carbon dioxide
d) Sulphur dioxide
b
8. What is right about Ammonia?
a) Ammonia is insoluble in water
b) Ammonia spoils the taste of fruits and vegetables when mixed with water
c) Ammonia does not affect the taste of fruits and vegetables when mixed with water
d) Ammonia is not toxic
b
9. Among the following refrigerants, which is the odd refrigerant as per the criterion of toxicity?
a) R – 11
b) R – 12
c) R – 22
d) R – 30
d
R – 11, R – 12, and R – 22 need 120 minutes of exposure to produce the serious effect of toxicity.
10. R – 764, i.e., Sulphur dioxide is the least toxic refrigerant.
a) False
b) True
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Refrigeration & Air Conditioning.
To practice all areas of Refrigeration & Air Conditioning, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Refrigeration Questions and Answers – Refrigerants – Thermodynamic Properties» Next - Refrigeration Questions and Answers – Refrigerants – Physical Properties 
