1. The performance of a refrigerant reciprocating compressor is not measured in terms of its ______________
a) refrigerating capacity
b) brake power per tonne of refrigeration
c) total brake power
d) horse power
d
2. Which one of the following is not an important parameter in the design of a refrigerant reciprocating compressor?
a) Evaporator temperature
b) Condenser temperature
c) Suction temperature
d) Compressor temperature
d
3. The refrigeration capacity decreases with the decrease in the evaporator or suction temperature.
a) True
b) False
a
The refrigeration capacity decreases with the decrease in the evaporator or suction temperature. It is due to the fact that at low suction temperature, the vaporising pressure is low and therefore the density of suction vapor entering the compressor is low. Hence the mass of refrigerant circulated through the compressor per unit time decreases with the decrease in suction temperature for a given displacement.
4. The effect of suction temperature on the compressor B.P. per tonne of refrigeration is?
a) Compressor B.P. per tonne of refrigeration decreases with the increase in suction temperature
b) Compressor B.P. per tonne of refrigeration increases with the increase in suction temperature
c) Compressor B.P. per tonne of refrigeration remains the same with any change in suction temperature
d) Compressor B.P. per tonne of refrigeration decreases with the decrease in suction temperature
a
The effect of suction temperature on the compressor B.P. per tonne of refrigeration is that the compressor B.P. per tonne of refrigeration decreases with the increase in suction temperature, when the condenser temperature remains the same.
5. The effect of suction temperature on the total B.P. is?
a) To increase the B.P. with the decrease of suction temperature
b) To decrease the B.P. with the decrease of suction temperature
c) That the total B.P. remains unaffected by the changes in suction temperature
d) Can’t say only from the suction temperature
b
The total B.P. of the compressor is dependent on the work of compression and the mass of refrigerant circulated per minute. Hence the effect of suction temperature on the total B.P. is to increase the B.P. with the decrease of suction temperature.
6. What is the effect of condenser temperature on compressor refrigerating capacity?
a) Increase in temperature decreases the refrigeration capacity
b) Decrease in temperature decreases the refrigeration capacity
c) Does not affect the capacity of refrigeration
d) Increase in temperature increases the refrigeration capacity
a
The effect of condenser temperature on compressor refrigerating capacity is to decreases the refrigeration capacity by increasing the condenser temperature.
7. What is the effect of condenser temperature on B.P. per tonne of refrigeration?
a) Increase in temperature decreases the B.P.
b) Decrease in temperature increases the B.P.
c) Does not affect the B.P.
d) Increase in temperature increases the B.P.
d
The effect of condenser temperature on B.P. per tonne of refrigeration is to increase the B.P. by increasing the condenser temperature.
8. What is the effect of condenser temperature on total B.P.?
a) Increase in temperature decreases the total B.P.
b) Decrease in temperature increases the total B.P.
c) Does not affect the total B.P.
d) Increase in temperature increases the total B.P.
d
The effect of condenser temperature on the total B.P. is to increase the total B.P. by increasing the condenser temperature.
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Refrigeration & Air Conditioning.
To practice all areas of Refrigeration for Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Refrigeration Questions and Answers – Compound VCR System – Cascade Systems – 2» Next - Refrigeration Questions and Answers – Expansion Devices 
