1. The segment base is specified using the register named is?
a) ORG instructions
b) TITLE instruction
c) ASSUME instruction
d) SEGMENT instruction
a
2. In what module multiple instances of execution will yield the same result even if one instance has not terminated before the next one has begun?
a) Non usable module
b) Serially usable
c) Re-enter-able
d) None of the mentioned
c
3. Dividing a project into segments and smaller units in order to simplify design and programming efforts is called?
a) Modular approach
b) Top down approach
c) Bottom up approach
d) Left right approach
a
4. Which one of the following is the tightest upper bound that represents the time complexity of inserting an object into a binary search tree of n nodes?
a) O(1)
b) O(long)
c) O(n)
d) O(long)
c
5. Which of the following is true for machine language?
a) Continuous execution of program segments
b) Depicting flow of data in a system
c) A sequence of instructions which solves a problem
d) The language which interacts with the computer using only the binary digits 1 and 0
d
6. Software that measures, monitors, and controls events are ___________
a) System S/w
b) Real Time software
c) Scientific software
d) Business Software
b
7. A linker is given object module for a set of programs that were compiled separately. What is not true about an object module?
a) Object code
b) Relocation bits
c) Names and locations of all external symbols denied in the object module
d) Absolute addresses of internal symbols
d
8. The table created by lexical analysis to describe all literals used in the source program is?
a) Terminal table
b) Literal table
c) Identifier table
d) Reductions
b
9. Which loader function is accomplished by loader?
a) Reallocation
b) Allocation
c) Linking
d) Loading
d
10. What is Pass 2?
a) Assemble instruction and generate data
b) Perform processing of assembler
c) Write the object program
d) All of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Compilers.
To practice all areas of Compilers, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Compilers Questions and Answers – Syntax-Directed Definitions and Translations – 1» Next - Compilers Questions and Answers – Implementation of the Translation Specified by Syntax-Directed Definitions  – 1 
