1. In what aspect, HDLs differ from other computer programming languages?
a) No aspect; both are same
b) HDLs describe hardware rather than executing a program on a computer
c) HDLs describe software and not hardware
d) Other computer programming languages have more complexity
b
2. Which of the following HDLs are IEEE standards?
a) VHDL and Verilog
b) C and C++
c) Altera and Xilinx
d) Quartus II and MaxPlus II
a
3. Why we needed HDLs while having many traditional Programming languages?
a) Traditional programming languages are complex
b) HDLs are complementary to traditional programming languages to complete the design process
c) Some characteristics of digital hardware couldn’t be captured by traditional languages
d) HDLs offer more complexity than traditional programming languages.
c
4. An HDL can’t describe Hardware at Gate level as well as switch level?
a)  True
b) False
b
5. Why do we need concurrent processing for describing digital systems in HDLs?
a) Faster processing than conventional programming languages
b) Concurrent processing is easier than sequential processing
c) It allows taking timing constraints into consideration
d) Complexity of digital systems needs concurrent processing
d
6. An ASIC can be correctly designed by using programming languages like C or Assembly.
a) True
b) False
b
7. VHDL is based on which of the following programming languages?
a) ADA programming language
b) C
c) Assembly
d) PHP
a
8. What is the advantage of using VHDL instead of any other HDL?
a) Week typing
b) Based on ADA
c) Portability
d) Easy to code
c
9. Which of the following is a characteristic of VHDL?
a) Case sensitive
b) Use of simple data types
c) Based on C programming language
d) Strongly typed language
d
10. Which of the following is a characteristic of Verilog HDL?
a) Strongly typed language
b) Case sensitive
c) Better library
d) Not portable
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – VHDL.
To practice all exam questions on VHDL, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - VHDL Questions and Answers – EDA Tools» Next - VHDL Questions and Answers – Common Terms used in VHDL 
