1. Which of the following is returned by the function kind attributes?
a) Value
b) Function
c) Signal
d) Array
a
2. You are given with the position number of a value within a type, which attribute will you use to find its value?
a) ‘POS(value)
b) ‘VAL(value)
c) ‘POSITION(value)
d) ‘VALUE(value)
b
3. A value from a type is passed as an argument to the attribute to find its position number. Which attribute it should be?
a) ‘SUCC(value)
b) ‘PRED(value)
c) ‘VAL(value)
d) ‘POS(value)
d
4. What is the function of ‘SUCC(value) attribute?
a) To return the value next to the value passed in argument of the attribute
b) To return the value previous to the value passed in argument of the attribute
c) To return the position of value next to the value passed in argument
d) To return the position of value next to the value passed in argument
a
5. Which of the following describes the function of ‘PRED(value)?
a) To return the position of value next to the value passed in argument
b) To return the value next to the value passed in argument of the attribute
c) To return the value previous to the value passed in the argument
d) To return the position of value next to the value passed in argument
c
6. Which of the following is equivalent to the ‘SUCC(value) attribute?
a) ‘PRED(value)
b) ‘LEFTOF(value)
c) ‘RIGHTOF(value)
d) ‘LEFT(value)
c
7. Which of the following is similar to ‘PRED(value) attribute?
a) ‘LEFTOF(value)
b) ‘RIGHTOF(value)
c) ‘RIGHT(value)
d) ‘LEFT(value)
a
8. What would be the value of x and y in the example given below?
TYPE color IS (red, yellow, green, blue, purple, orange)
VARIABLE x,y : color;
x := color’SUCC(green);
y := color’VAL(4)
a) blue, green
b) blue, blue
c) 4, blue
d) blue, 4
b
9. What would be the value of x and y?
TYPE color IS (red, green, blue, yellow, purple, orange, black)
VARIABLE x : INTEGER;
VARIABLE y : color;
x &lt;= color'POS(green);
y &lt;= color'LEFTOF(green);
a) red, green
b) green, red
c) red, 2
d) 2, red
d
10. Identify the value of variable x from the lines given below.
SUBTYPE delay_time IS TIME RANGE 10 ns to 50 ns;
VARIABLE x := delay_time'BASE
a) ns
b) time
c) 10 ns
d) 50 ns
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – VHDL.
To practice all areas of VHDL, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - VHDL Questions and Answers – Value Kind Attributes» Next - VHDL Questions and Answers – Signal Kind Attributes 
