1. What is a stateless file server?
a) It keeps tracks of states of different objects
b) It maintains internally no state information at all
c) It maintains some information in them
d) None of the mentioned
b
2. What are the characteristics of the stateless server?
a) Easier to implement
b) They are not fault-tolerant upon client or server failures
c) They store all information file server
d) They are redundant to keep data safe
a
3. Implementation of a stateless file server must not follow?
a) Idempotency requirement
b) Encryption of keys
c) File locking mechanism
d) Cache consistency
b
4. What are the advantages of file replication?
a) Improves availability & performance
b) Decreases performance
c) They are consistent
d) Improves speed
a
5. What are characteristic of NFS protocol?
a) Search for file within directory
b) Read a set of directory entries
c) Manipulate links and directories
d) All of the mentioned
d
6. What is the coherency of replicated data?
a) All replicas are identical at all times
b) Replicas are perceived as identical only at some points in time
c) Users always read the most recent data in the replicas
d) All of the mentioned
d
7. What are the three popular semantic modes?
a) Unix, Coherent & Session semantics
b) Unix, Transaction & Session semantics
c) Coherent, Transaction & Session semantics
d) Session, Coherent semantics
b
8. What are the characteristics of Unix semantics?
a) Easy to implement in a single processor system
b) Data cached on a per process basis using write through case control
c) Write-back enhances access performance
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. What are the characteristics of transaction semantics?
a) Suitable for applications that are concerned about coherence of data
b) The users of this model are interested in the atomicity property for their transaction
c) Easy to implement in a single processor system
d) Write-back enhances access performance
b
10. What are non characteristics of session semantics?
a) Each client obtains a working copy from the server
b) When file is closed, the modified file is copied to the file server
c) The burden of coordinating file sharing is ignored by the system
d) Easy to implement in a single processor system
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Operating System.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Operating System.
To practice all areas of Operating System, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Operating System.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Operating System Questions & Answers – Distributed File System – 1» Next - Operating System Questions & Answers – Distributed File System – 3 
