1. What are the parts of network structure?
a) Workstation
b) Gateway
c) Laptop
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. What is a valid network topology?
a) Multiaccess bus
b) Ring
c) Star
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. What are sites in network topology compared?
a) Basic cost
b) Communication cost
c) Reliability
d) All of the mentioned
d
4. Which design features of a communication network are important?
a) Naming and name resolution
b) Routing strategies
c) Connection strategies
d) All of the mentioned
d
5. What are the characteristics of Naming and Name resolution?
a) name systems in the network
b) address messages with the process-id
c) virtual circuit
d) message switching
b
6. What are routing strategies which is not used in distributed systems?
a) Fixed routing
b) Token routing
c) Virtual circuit
d) Dynamic routing
c
7. What are the connection strategies not used in distributed systems?
a) Circuit switching
b) Message switching
c) Token switching
d) Packet switching
c
8. How is are collisions avoided in network?
a) Carrier sense with multiple access (CSMA); collision detection (CD)
b) Carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance
c) Message slots
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. What is a common problem found in distributed system?
a) Process Synchronization
b) Communication synchronization
c) Deadlock problem
d) Power failure
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Operating System.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Operating System.
To practice all areas of Operating System, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Operating System.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Operating System Questions & Answers – Distributed Operating System – Types & Resource Sharing» Next - Operating System Questions & Answers – Distributed Operating System – Robustness of Distributed Systems 
