1. What are the different ways in which clients and servers are dispersed across machines?
a) Servers may not run on dedicated machines
b) Servers and clients can be on same machines
c) Distribution cannot be interposed between a OS and the file system
d) OS cannot be distributed with the file system a part of that distribution
b
2. What are not the characteristics of a DFS?
a) login transparency and access transparency
b) Files need not contain information about their physical location
c) No Multiplicity of users
d) No Multiplicity if files
c
3. What are characteristic of a DFS?
a) Fault tolerance
b) Scalability
c) Heterogeneity of the system
d) Upgradation
d
4. What are the different ways file accesses take place?
a) sequential access
b) direct access
c) indexed sequential access
d) all of the mentioned
d
5. Which is not a major component of a file system?
a) Directory service
b) Authorization service
c) Shadow service
d) System service
c
6. What are the different ways mounting of the file system?
a) boot mounting
b) auto mounting
c) explicit mounting
d) all of the mentioned
d
7. What is the advantage of caching in remote file access?
a) Reduced network traffic by retaining recently accessed disk blocks
b) Faster network access
c) Copies of data creates backup automatically
d) None of the mentioned
a
8. What is networked virtual memory?
a) Caching
b) Segmentation
c) RAM disk
d) None of the mentioned
a
9. What are the examples of state information?
a) opened files and their clients
b) file descriptors and file handles
c) current file position pointers
d) all of the mentioned
d
10. Which is not an example of state information?
a) Mounting information
b) Description of HDD space
c) Session keys
d) Lock status
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Operating System.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Operating System.
To practice all areas of Operating System, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Operating System.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Operating System Questions & Answers – Distributed Operating System – Robustness of Distributed Systems» Next - Operating System Questions & Answers – Distributed File System – 2 
