1. Which of the following are forms of malicious attack?
a) Theft of information
b) Modification of data
c) Wiping of information
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. What are the common security threats?
a) File Shredding
b) File sharing and permission
c) File corrupting
d) File integrity
b
3. From the following, which is not a common file permission?
a) Write
b) Execute
c) Stop
d) Read
c
4. Which of the following is a good practice?
a) Give full permission for remote transferring
b) Grant read only permission
c) Grant limited permission to specified account
d) Give both read and write permission but not execute
c
5. What is not a good practice for user administration?
a) Isolating a system after a compromise
b) Perform random auditing procedures
c) Granting privileges on a per host basis
d) Using telnet and FTP for remote access
d
6. Which of the following is the least secure method of authentication?
a) Key card
b) fingerprint
c) retina pattern
d) Password
d
7. Which of the following is a strong password?
a) 19thAugust88
b) Delhi88
c) P@assw0rd
d) !augustdelhi
c
8. Why is one time password safe?
a) It is easy to generated
b) It cannot be shared
c) It is different for every access
d) It is a complex encrypted password
c
9. What does Light Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) doesn’t store?
a) Users
b) Address
c) Passwords
d) Security Keys
b
10. What is characteristic of RADIUS system?
a) It  is essential for centralized encryption and authentication
b) It works on Network layer to deny access to unauthorized people
c) It provides centralized authentication mechanism via network devices
d) It’s a strong File access system
c
11. Which happens first authorization or authentication?
a) Authorization
b) Authentication
c) Authorization & Authentication are same
d) None of the mentioned
a
12. What are the characteristics of Authorization?
a) RADIUS and RSA
b) 3 way handshaking with syn and fin
c) Multilayered protection for securing resources
d) Deals with privileges and rights
d
13. What forces the user to change password at first login?
a) Default behavior of OS
b) Part of AES encryption practice
c) Devices being accessed forces the user
d) Account administrator
d
14. What is not a best practice for password policy?
a) Deciding maximum age of password
b) Restriction on password reuse and history
c) Password encryption
d) Having change password every 2 years
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Operating System.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Operating System.
To practice all areas of Operating System, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Operating System.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Operating System Questions & Answers – Multimedia System – Network Management» Next - Operating System Questions & Answers – Security – Program and System Threats 
