1. What is not an important part of security protection?
a) Large amount of RAM to support antivirus
b) Strong passwords
c) Audit log periodically
d) Scan for unauthorized programs in system directories
a
2. What is used to protect network from outside internet access?
a) A trusted antivirus
b) 24 hours scanning for virus
c) Firewall to separate trusted and untrusted network
d) Deny users access to websites which can potentially cause security leak
c
3. What is the best practice in the firewall domain environment?
a) Create two domain trusted and untrusted domain
b) Create strong policy in firewall to support different types of users
c) Create a Demilitarized zone
d) Create two DMZ zones with one untrusted domain
c
4. Which direction access cannot happen using DMZ zone by default?
a) Company computer to DMZ
b) Internet to DMZ
c) Internet to  company computer
d) Company computer to internet
c
5. What are the two features of a tripwire file system?
a) It is a tool to monitor file systems
b) It is used to automatically take corrective action
c) It is used to secure UNIX system
d) None of the mentioned
a
6. How do viruses avoid basic pattern match of antivirus?
a) They are encrypted
b) They act with special permissions
c) They modify themselves
d) None of the mentioned
c
7. How does an antivirus of today identify viruses?
a) Previously known patterns
b) It can detect unknown patterns
c) It can take high priority to increase scanning speed
d) None of the mentioned
a
8. What is known as a sandbox?
a) It is a program which can be molded to do the desired task
b) It is a program that is controlled or emulated section of OS
c) It is a special mode of antivirus
d) None of the mentioned
b
9. What is are two safe computing practices?
a) Not to open software from unknown vendors
b) Open and execute programs in admin level/root
c) Open and execute programs in presence of antivirus
d) None of the mentioned
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Operating System.
Here’s the list of Best Reference Books in Operating System.
To practice all areas of Operating System, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Operating System.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Operating System Questions & Answers – Security – Program and System Threats» Next - Operating System Questions & Answers – Security – Intrusion Detection 
