1. When a site is said to be sound, which of the following character is not desirable?
a) Strong
b) Impermeable
c) Stable
d) Permeable
d
2. Rocks are inherently which type of materials?
a) Isotropic
b) Anisotropic
c) Homogeneous
d) Non-homogeneous
b
3. When is the strength of sound rock always greater?
a) When stresses are normal to bedding planes
b) When stresses are parallel to bedding planes
c) When stresses are inclined at 45° to bedding planes
d) When stresses are inclined at 60° to bedding planes
a
4. The most unfavourable strike direction is when the beds?
a) Strike parallel to axis of dam and the dip is upstream
b) Strike parallel to axis of dam and the dip is downstream
c) Strike normal to axis of dam and the dip is downstream
d) Strike normal to axis of dam and the dip is upstream
b
5. Which of the following is not a method for dam construction when a shear zone is encountered?
a) Construct on shear zone
b) Grouting the shear zones
c) Try and avoid the site as much as possible
d) Excavation and back filling
a
6. In synclinal bends, dams placed on which part would run risk of leaking?
a) Upstream limb
b) Downstream limb
c) Core
d) Sloping side
a
7. What aspect of the joint has to be thoroughly studied before construction of a dam?
a) Geometry of the joint
b) The depth of the joint
c) Nature of the joint
d) The texture of the rocks
d
8. Which joints have to be established with greater care?
a) Sheet joints
b) Mural joints
c) Micro joints
d) Columnar joints
c
9. The fish culture in the stream is not affected by the construction of a dam.
a) True
b) False
b
10. Knowing the lithology of the site is very important in terms of its safety and feasibility.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Engineering Geology.
To practice all areas of Engineering Geology, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Engineering Geology Questions and Answers – Types of Dams – 02» Next - Engineering Geology Questions and Answers – Reservoirs and Their Types 
