1. The set of physical conditions at which the density and other properties of a liquid and vapour become identical, is called
a) Corresponding state
b) Critical state
c) Equation of state
d) None of the mentioned
b
2. Critical point occurs at
a) Highest temperature and pressure at which gas and liquid can coexist
b) Lowest temperature and pressure at which gas and liquid can coexist
c) Highest temperature and lowest pressure at which gas and liquid can coexist
d) Lowest temperature and highest pressure at which gas and liquid can coexist
a
3. Material in a state above its critical point is
a) Critical fluid
b) Supercritical fluid
c) Plasma fluid
d) None of the mentioned
b
4. “Any compound should have the same reduced volume at the same reduced pressure and reduced temperature.” Is known as
a) Law of corresponding states
b) Law of critical state
c) Law of reduced state
d) None of the mentioned
a
5. Compressibility factor z is
a) z = PV/RT
b) z = Pv/RT
c) z = PM/RT
d) z = PV/nT
Where: P – Absolute Pressure of the gas
       V – Total volume occupied by the gas
	   n – Number of moles of the gas
	   T – Absolute temperature
	   v – Specific molar volume
b
6. For an ideal gas, the compressibility factor is
a) 0.5
b) 1.0
c) 1.5
d) 2.0
b
7. A parameter that indicates the degree of nonsphericity of a molecule is called
a) Compressibility factor
b) Acentric factor
c) Holburn factor
d) None of the mentioned
b
8. The summation of each of the partial pressure of the component in a system equals to the total pressure. Is
a) Dalton`s law
b) Boyle`s law
c) Charles`s Law
d) None of the mentioned
a
9. For the Van der Waals real gas equation
Statement I: The unit of constant a is atm.L2/mole2
Statement II: The unit of constant b is L
a) Both statements are false
b) Only one can be true at a time
c) Both statement are true
d) None of the mentioned
b
10. Corrected and normalized conditions of temperature, pressure and volume, normalized by their respective critical conditions is called
a) Reduced variables
b) Corresponding variables
c) Standard condition variables
d) None of the mentioned
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Chemical Process Calculation.
To practice all areas of Chemical Process Calculation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Chemical Process Calculation Questions and Answers – Real gas Mixture» Next - Chemical Process Calculation Questions and Answers – Phase diagrams and Phase Rule-I 
