1. Which of the following is detected using manometer devices?
a) Pressure difference between manometric and measuring liquid
b) pH difference between manometric and measuring liquid
c) Density difference between manometric and measuring liquid
d) None of the mentioned
a
2. What is the difference between water and transformer oil as a manometric liquid?
a) Water is used for large pressure differential
b) Transformer oil is used for large pressure differential
c) Transformer oil has evaporation problems
d) Water has evaporation problems
d
3. In which of the following categories be thin plate diaphragm included?
a) Primary transducer
b) Secondary transducer
c) Voltage measuring devices
d) Spring balance systems
a
4. Which of the following applications are suited for thin plate diaphragms?
a) Static pressure only
b) Dynamic pressure only
c) Both static and dynamic pressure with large frequency
d) Both static and dynamic pressure with small frequency
d
5. Using a membrane for measuring pressure, which of the following represents correct relation for displacement?
a) (R2 ΔP)/4S
b) ΔP/4S
c) (R2 ΔP)/S
d) (R2 ΔP)/2
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Which of the following quantities can be measured using bellows?
a) Absolute pressure
b) Gauge pressure
c) Differential pressure
d) All of the mentioned
d
7. Which of the following conversion take place in bourdon tubes?
a) Pressure to displacement
b) Pressure to voltage
c) Pressure to strain
d) Pressure to force
a
8. ‘Capsules are made from diaphragms’.
a) True
b) False
a
9. ‘In bellows pressure to displacement conversion takes place’.
a) True
b) False
b
10. Which of the following devices convert pressure to displacement?
a) Diaphragm
b) Bellow
c) Capsule
d) Both diaphragm and capsule
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Instrumentation Transducers.
To practice all areas of Instrumentation Transducers, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Instrumentation Transducers Questions and Answers – Force Measurement» Next - Instrumentation Transducers Questions and Answers – Torque Measurement 
