1. Which of the following are nuclear radiations?
a) Beta
b) Alpha
c) Gamma
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. Which of the following has a helium nucleus?
a) Alpha particle
b) Beta particle
c) Gamma particle
d) All of the mentioned
a
3. Which of the following represents sensitivity of ionization transducer?
a) Ia/Ig
b) Ig/Ia
c) IaIg
d) Ia/ PIg
d
4. Which of the following potential is applied to the grid?
a) +ve potential
b) –ve potential
c) Neutral potential
d) None of the mentioned
a
5. Which of the following is correct for the ionization transducer?
a) Grid current decrease constantly
b) Grid current Increases constantly
c) Grid current is made constant
d) None of the mentioned
c
6. Cold cathode ionization vacuum gauges are more accurate than hot cathode ionization vacuum gauges.
a) True
b) False
b
7. Which of the following cannot be measured using ionization transducer?
a) Vacuum pressure
b) Gaseous pressure
c) Displacement
d) None of the mentioned
d
8. Which of the following applications ionization chamber is used?
a) For detection of nuclear radiation
b) For better stability
c) For storing inert gas
d) For ionizing gas
a
9. Which of the following is a radioactive vacuum gauge?
a) Cold cathode gauge
b) Hot cathode gauge
c) Non ionization gauge
d) None of the mentioned
a
10. Which of the following represents a mass absorption coefficient?
a) Ratio of linear absorption coefficient to density
b) Product of absorption coefficient and density
c) Linear absorption coefficient
d) Product of linear absorption coefficient and mass
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Instrumentation Transducers.
To practice all areas of Instrumentation Transducers, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Instrumentation Transducers Questions and Answers – Photo Electric Transducers» Next - Instrumentation Transducers Questions and Answers – Digital Transducers 
