1. Which of the following feature makes antibodies attractive drug candidates?
a) It being a glycoprotein
b) Low target specificity
c) Catalytic efficiency
d) High target specificity
d
2. Which of the following is not a class of immunoglobulins?
a) IgA
b) IgD
c) IgE
d) IgB
d
3. The hypervariable loops are primarily responsible for antigen recognition and referred to as complementarity determining regions.
a) False
b) True
b
4. A single-chain variable fragment (ScFv) consists of which of the following?
a) VH & CH
b) VL only
c) VH only
d) VH & VL
d
5. Which of the following is most suitable for the therapeutic use against pathogens or tumor cells?
a) IgG3
b) IgG4
c) IgG2
d) IgG1
d
6. Which of the following feature is not taken into consideration when an antibody is designed as a drug?
a) Immunogenicity
b) Affinity
c) Stability
d) Primary structure
d
7. Which of the following region is associated with serum half-life?
a) Hinge region
b) Fab region
c) Fc and Fab region
d) Fc region
d
8. Which of the following was constructed to reduce the immunogenicity of murine antibodies in humans?
a) Monoclonal antibodies
b) Anti-murine antibodies
c) Anti-chimeric antibodies
d) Chimeric antibodies
d
9. Therapeutic antibodies can work by blocking ligand-receptor interaction or by triggering an intracellular signal, such as apoptosis.
a) False
b) True
b
10. CDC is dependent upon binding of which of the following to the hinge and CH2 domain of antibodies?
a) One molecule of C1q
b) Two molecules of C1rs
c) One molecule of C1r
d) Two molecules of C1qs
d
11. Which of the following immunoglobulin can be suitable for diagnostic imaging or blocking molecular interactions?
a) IgG3
b) IgG2
c) IgG1
d) IgG4
d
12. Chimeric antibodies do not induce an immunogenic response in humans.
a) True
b) False
b
13. Which of the following is a method to increase the half-lives of antibody fragments?
a) Improvement of CDC
b) Acetylation
c) Fragment annealing
d) PEGylation
d
14. Which of the following would allow lower doses of antibodies to elicit a more profound biological activity?
a) Improvement of the primary structure of a protein
b) Improvement of antigen dissociation affinity
c) Elimination of glycosylation of protein
d) Improvement of antigen-binding affinity
d
15. Which of the following was constructed to further minimize the mouse component of antibodies?
a) Murine antibodies
b) Anti-chimeric antibodies
c) Chimeric antibodies
d) Humanized antibodies
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Protein Engineering.
To practice all areas of Protein Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Protein Engineering for Healthcare» Next - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Applications – Antibody – 2 
