1. Which of the following is the site of protein synthesis in a cell?
a) Nucleus
b) Cell membrane
c) Vacuole
d) Ribosomes
d
2. What does the ribosome consist of?
a) Two subunits of equal sizes
b) Two large and two small subunits
c) Two large and one small subunit
d) One large and one small subunit
d
3. Which of the following was used by Carl Woese to build the prokaryotic phylogenetic tree?
a) 5.8S rRNA gene
b) 5S rRNA gene
c) 23S rRNA gene
d) 16S rRNA gene
d
4. There is no difference between prokaryotic and eukaryotic ribosomes.
a) True
b) False
b
5. Which of the following represents the correct constituents of a prokaryotic ribosome?
a) 16S, 23S, and 5.8S rRNA
b) 23S, and 5.8S rRNA
c) 16S and 5S rRNA
d) 16S, 23S, and 5S rRNA
d
6. Which of the following represents the correct constituents of a eukaryotic ribosome?
a) 16S, 28S, and 5S rRNA
b) 16S, 28S, and 5.8S rRNA
c) 18S, 28S, and 5.8S rRNA
d) 18S, 28S, 5S, and 5.8S rRNA
d
7. Find the odd one out.
a) 18S rRNA
b) 28S rRNA
c) 5.8S rRNA
d) 16S rRNA
d
8. Proteins that are to be incorporated into cytoplasmic organelles are synthesized on ER membrane-bound ribosomes. Whereas, proteins that are to be imported into the ER-Golgi system are synthesized on free ribosomes in the cytosol.
a) True
b) False
b
9. Find the odd one out.
a) ER proteins
b) Lysosomal proteins
c) Golgi complex proteins
d) Soluble cytosolic proteins
d
10. Which of the following protein is not synthesized by membrane-free ribosomes?
a) Chloroplast proteins
b) Peroxisomal proteins
c) Extrinsic membrane proteins localized to the cytoplasmic surface
d) Extrinsic membrane proteins localized to the extra-cytoplasmic surface
d
11. Which of the following protein is not synthesized by ER membrane-bound ribosomes?
a) Integral plasma membrane proteins
b) Golgi complex proteins
c) Extrinsic membrane proteins localized to the extra-cytoplasmic surface
d) Extrinsic membrane proteins localized to the cytoplasmic surface
d
12. Which of the following statement is incorrect?
a) Ribosome catalyzes peptide bond formation
b) A ribosome is made up of two unequal subunits
c) Ribosome contains only rRNA and many small proteins
d) The ribosome does not include specific binding sites for tRNA molecules.
d
13. Identify the incorrect statement.
a) A prokaryotic ribosome consists of two subunits, which are the 50S and 30S
b) Ribosomal RNAs have complicated secondary structure
c) The ribosome has a complex three-dimensional structure
d) The distribution of proteins in the two ribosomal subunits is uniform
d
14. Which of the following is not a feature of the larger subunit of the eukaryotic ribosome?
a) 60S size
b) Contains both 5.8S and 5s rRNA
c) Catalyzes peptide elongation
d) mRNA binding
d
15. Ribosomes contain three functionally distinct tRNA binding sites. Which of the following is not one of them?
a) A site
b) P site
c) E site
d) O site
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Protein Engineering.
To practice all areas of Protein Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – t-RNA and its Aminoacylation» Next - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Translation 
