1. Which among the following structure represents the local spatial arrangement of a polypeptide without regard to the conformation of its side chains?
a) Primary structure
b) Tertiary structure
c) Quaternary structure
d) Secondary structure
d
2. The peptide group in a protein has a rigid, planar structure. Which interactions give the peptide bond its partial double bond character?
a) Covalent
b) Non-covalent
c) Hydrophobic
d) Resonance
d
3. What are the most common regular secondary structures found in proteins?
a) Alpha-helix and turns
b) Beta-sheets and loops
c) Loops and turns
d) Alpha-helix and beta-sheets
d
4. Who discovered the alpha-helix structure in a protein molecule?
a) Lynn Margulis
b) Francis Collins
c) Louis Pasteur
d) Linus Pauling
d
5. The alpha-helix is a right-handed helix.
a) False
b) True
b
6. What are the pitch length of alpha-helix and the number of residues per turn?
a) 5.3 Armstrong, 6.4 residues
b) 3.4 Armstrong, 5.6 residues
c) 3.6 Armstrong, 5.4 residues
d) 5.4 Armstrong, 3.6 residues
d
7. The peptide C=O bond of the nth residue of the backbone of alpha-helix points along and forms a hydrogen bond with the peptide N—H group of which among the following residue?
a) (n+1)th
b) (n+2)th
c) (n+3)th
d) (n+4)th
d
8. Beta-sheets are sometimes also called as “pleated sheets”.
a) False
b) True
b
9. Regular secondary structures such as alpha-helices or the strands of beta-sheets are often connected by a stretch of a polypeptide that changes direction abruptly. What are these structures?
a) Incomplete sheets
b) Inverse helix
c) Small helix
d) Turns or beta-bends
d
10. Parallel beta-sheets are more stable than antiparallel beta-sheets.
a) True
b) False
b
11. Which among the following are the principal component of the outer layer of the skin (epidermis) and its related appendages, such as hair, horn, nails, and feathers?
a) Calrectin
b) Connexin
c) Collagen
d) Keratin
d
12. Which is the most abundant protein in all vertebrates?
a) Keratin
b) Tapasin
c) Connexin
d) Collagen
d
13. Which disease results from the dietary deficiency of vitamin C?
a) Jaundice
b) Malaria
c) Cancer
d) Scurvy
d
14. Which disease is caused by the regular ingestion of the seeds from the sweet pea?
a) Scurvy
b) Diabetes
c) AIDS
d) Lathyrism
d
15. Helix capping is the phenomenon in which, the side chains of which two flanking residues fold back to form hydrogen bonds with one of the four-terminal residues of the helix?
a) Pro, Val
b) Gly, Val
c) Val, Ile
d) Asn, Gln
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Protein Engineering.
To practice all areas of Protein Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Primary Structure of Protein» Next - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Tertiary Structure of Protein 
