1. What is the process of synthesis of a polypeptide chain from mRNA known as?
a) Conversion
b) Replication
c) Transcription
d) Translation
d
2. In which of the following directions does the polypeptide synthesis proceeds?
a) From both N-terminus and C-terminus
b) Either from N-terminus or C-terminus
c) C-terminus to N-terminus
d) N-terminus to C-terminus
d
3. The ribosome reads mRNA in which of the following direction?
a) Both 3’ → 5’ and 5’ → 3’
b) Either 3’ → 5’ or 5’ → 3’
c) 3’ → 5’ direction only
d) 5’ → 3’ direction only
d
4. In prokaryotes and eukaryotes, multiple ribosomes can bind to a single mRNA transcript, and give rise to beads on a string structure. What is this structure called?
a) Monosome
b) Multiribosome
c) Oligosome
d) Polysome
d
5. Base pairing between mRNA and which of the following rRNAs help in the selection of translation initiation site?
a) 5.8S rRNA
b) 5S rRNA
c) 28S rRNA
d) 16S rRNA
d
6. Which of the following initiation factor when bound to the 30S subunit blocks the A site, so that only the P site is available for the initiator tRNA to bind to?
a) IF-4
b) IF-2
c) IF-3
d) IF-1
d
7. Which of the following initiation factor bring the initiator tRNA?
a) IF-4
b) IF-3
c) IF-1
d) IF-2
d
8. The second and further aminoacyl-tRNAs are brought to the ribosome bound to which of the following protein complex?
a) EF-Ts-ATP
b) EF-Ts-GTP
c) EF-Tu-ATP
d) EF-Tu-GTP
d
9. Which of the following rRNA is intimately involved with the peptidyl transferase activity?
a) 5S rRNA
b) 16S rRNA
c) 28S rRNA
d) 23S rRNA
d
10. With the help of which of the following proteins does the ribosome recognize the stop codon?
a) Cleavage Factors (CF)
b) Elimination Factors (EF)
c) Termination Factors (TF)
d) Release Factors (RF)
d
11. Which of the following proteins bind to the ribosome and causes the dissociation of the two ribosomal subunits from mRNA?
a) RF 1
b) RF 2
c) RF 3
d) RRF
d
12. First, the bond between the amino acid and the tRNA in the P site is cleaved, then the peptide bond is formed between the two amino acids.
a) False
b) True
b
13. The peptidyl transferase center that catalyzes the peptide bond formation is located on the smaller subunit and consists entirely of rRNA.
a) True
b) False
b
14. Find the odd one out.
a) Puromycin
b) Streptomycin
c) Chloramphenicol
d) Vancomycin
d
15. Which of the following antibiotic acts by competitively inhibiting the peptidyl transferase activity of prokaryotic ribosomes?
a) Puromycin
b) Vancomycin
c) Tetracycline
d) Chloramphenicol
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Protein Engineering.
To practice all areas of Protein Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Ribosomes» Next - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Post-Translational Modifications – 1 
