1. Which of the following is also called as immunoglobulin?
a) MHC molecules
b) Fat molecules
c) Antigen molecules
d) Antibody molecules
d
2. Which of the following cells secrete antibodies in the bloodstream?
a) Antigen-presenting cells
b) B cells
c) T cells
d) Plasma cells
d
3. Which of the following is not the function of antibodies?
a) Immobilizing antigen
b) Neutralize antigens
c) Change the chemical composition of antigen
d) Destroy antigens
d
4. The antigen receptors present on the B cells recognize the entire antigen.
a) True
b) False
b
5. An antibody molecule forms which of the following structure?
a) V-shaped
b) L shaped
c) O shaped
d) Y shaped
d
6. Antibodies are grouped into how many classes?
a) Two
b) Four
c) Ten
d) Five
d
7. Which of the following class of antibody is found in the mucous membranes lining the respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts?
a) IgM
b) IgE
c) IgD
d) IgA
d
8. Which of the following is obtained by fusing the sequences coding for the variable region of immunoglobulins to proteins of phage coat?
a) Antigen
b) Monoclonal antibody
c) Monoclonal phage
d) Antibody phage display
d
9. The basic structure of the antibody consists of how many pairs of polypeptide chains?
a) Four
b) Three
c) Five
d) Two
d
10. Which of the following class of antibody is the most common antibody and is present mostly in the blood and tissue fluids?
a) IgA
b) IgM
c) IgE
d) IgG
d
11. In antibody engineering, its diversity is first randomly generated and specificity is obtained through the subsequent screening against even complex materials containing the antigen of interest.
a) False
b) True
b
12. Which of the following is not an application of engineered antibodies?
a) Immunotoxin antibodies
b) Immunoconjugate antibodies
c) In agriculture as a substitute of a plant hormone
d) In agriculture as a pesticide
d
13. Which of the following is also known as catalytic antibodies?
a) Immunozymes
b) Polyzymes
c) Ribozymes
d) Abzymes
d
14. Which of the following is not an important target of protein engineering?
a) Peptide hormones
b) Receptors
c) Components of the cell signaling machinery
d) Proteins like actin and myosin
d
15. The hormone/receptor interactions are mostly dependent on which of the following structural elements?
a) Quaternary structural elements
b) Primary structural elements
c) Tertiary structural elements
d) Secondary structural elements
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Protein Engineering.
To practice all questions papers on Protein Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Targets – Engineering Specificity and Purification» Next - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Targets – Industrial Enzymology 
