1. Which of the following is the process of the formation of a protein crystal?
a) Protein solubilization
b) Protein solidification
c) Protein concentration
d) Protein crystallization
d
2. Proteins can be prompted to form crystals when the solution in which they are dissolved becomes unsaturated.
a) True
b) False
b
3. Protein crystallization is predominantly carried out in the water.
a) False
b) True
b
4. Most proteins are soluble at physiological conditions, but as the concentration of solutes (ions, precipitants, etc.) rises, the protein becomes less soluble. Thus, it crystallizes or precipitates. What is this phenomenon known as?
a) Resolubilization
b) Coagulation
c) Salting in
d) Salting out
d
5. At very low solute concentration, proteins also become less soluble and form crystals. What is this phenomenon known as?
a) Salt precipitation
b) Salt minimization
c) Salting out
d) Salting in
d
Join [email protected]
6. Protein crystallization is inherently difficult because of the fragile nature of protein crystals.
a) False
b) True
b
7. Which of the following parameters does not influence the likelihood of protein crystallization?
a) Concentration of protein
b) Temperature
c) pH
d) Volume of sample
d
8. Find the odd one out?
a) Hanging drop vapour diffusion method
b) Sitting drop vapour diffusion method
c) Micro-dialysis method
d) Standing drop vapour diffusion method
d
9. Which of the following is not used to promote the formation of proteins crystals?
a) PEG
b) Ammonium sulfate
c) Tris-HCL
d) Ammonium nitrate
d
10. Which of the following is not required for protein crystallization?
a) Buffer
b) Additive
c) Precipitants
d) Denaturants
d
11. Which is the most common method of protein crystallization?
a) Free-interface diffusion
b) Microdialysis
c) Micro-batch
d) Vapour diffusion
d
12. In the vapour diffusion method of protein crystallization, a droplet is allowed to equilibrate with a larger reservoir containing buffers and precipitants. Which of the following is not a constituent of this droplet?
a) Purified protein
b) Buffer
c) Precipitant
d) Denatured DNA
d
13. Initially, the droplet of protein solution contains comparatively high precipitant and protein concentrations.
a) True
b) False
b
14. Which of the following is not related to vapour diffusion method of protein crystallization?
a) High concentration in reservoir
b) The Most commonly used method
c) Gentle and gradual change in concentration
d) An abrupt change in concentration
d
15. Macromolecular crystals are composed of approximately how much percent solvent on average?
a) Zero percent
b) 10 percent
c) 95 percent
d) 50 percent
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Protein Engineering.
To practice all areas of Protein Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Lysosome Mediated Protein Degradation» Next - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Methods of Protein Crystallization – 2 
