1. Macromolecular crystals are temperature sensitive.
a) False
b) True
b
2. The extent of the diffraction pattern from a crystal is inversely correlated with its degree of internal order.
a) True
b) False
b
3. Crystallization of proteins proceeds in two distinct steps. Which are these steps?
a) Solidification and crystallization
b) Crystallization and expansion
c) Growth and solidification
d) Nucleation and growth
d
4. Nucleation represents which order phase transition?
a) Zero-order
b) Third-order
c) Second-order
d) First-order
d
5. Which of the following is not a method for creating supersaturation?
a) Salting in
b) Salting out
c) Evaporation
d) Dilution
d
6. Which of the following does not promote protein crystal formation?
a) Addition of organic solvents
b) Direct mixing of protein and precipitant solutions
c) Altering the temperature
d) Addition of a solubilizing agent
d
7. Find the odd one out.
a) Removal of water through a membrane
b) Altering the dielectric of the medium
c) Altering the pH
d) Addition of detergent
d
8. Which of the following does not make the protein solution supersaturated?
a) Addition of salt
b) Change of pH
c) Addition of bridging ions
d) Addition of water
d
9. In the sitting drop vapour diffusion method the protein drop is suspended from a coverslip over the reservoir.
a) True
b) False
b
10. In which of the following method, the protein drop is on the elevated platform?
a) Hanging-drop vapour diffusion method
b) Elevated-drop vapour diffusion method
c) Standing-drop vapour diffusion method
d) Sitting-drop vapour diffusion method
d
11. Which of the following method takes advantage of a semi-permeable membrane for protein crystallization?
a) Vapour diffusion
b) Micro-batch crystallization
c) Free-interface diffusion
d) Microdialysis
d
12. Which of the following method utilizes free diffusion between a concentrated protein solution and a precipitant solution?
a) Micro-batch crystallization
b) Vapour diffusion
c) Microdialysis
d) Free-interface diffusion
d
13. In which of the following method, the droplet must be covered with paraffin oil to prevent evaporation?
a) Microdialysis
b) Free-interface diffusion
c) Vapour diffusion
d) Micro-batch crystallization
d
14. Which of the following method uses different conditions for nucleation and growth to achieve improved crystal quality?
a) Vapour diffusion
b) Microdialysis
c) Free-interface diffusion
d) Micro-batch crystallization
d
15. Which of the following is a correct feature for the free-interface diffusion method of protein crystallization?
a) Only one layer of precipitant solution
b) Only one layer of protein solution
c) The upper layer of a precipitant solution and lower layer of protein solution
d) The upper layer of protein solution and lower layer of precipitant solution
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Protein Engineering.
To practice all areas of Protein Engineering for Quizzes,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Methods of Protein Crystallization – 1» Next - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Structural Study – X-ray Crystallography – 1 
