1. Virtually all integral membrane proteins bear chains of sugars (oligosaccharides) of variable length that project outward from the plasma membrane.
a) False
b) True
b
2. Most of the membrane proteins have which of the following domains?
a) Metal-binding domain
b) Immunoglobulin domain
c) SH2 domain
d) Transmembrane domain
d
3. Who proposed the Fluid Mosaic Model of the plasma membrane?
a) Rudolf Virchow
b) Meselson and Stahl
c) Schleiden and Schwann
d) Singer and Nicolson
d
4. Which of the following is not mediated by glycocalyx?
a) Cell-cell interaction
b) Mechanical protection to the cell
c) Cell-substratum interaction
d) Gap junction
d
5. Which of the following is present beyond the immediate vicinity of the plasma membrane?
a) Chloroplast
b) Nucleus
c) Vacuum
d) ECM
d
6. The basement membrane is one of the best-defined extracellular matrices.
a) False
b) True
b
7. Which of the following is not a function of the basement membrane?
a) Surrounds nerve fibers, muscles, and fat cells
b) Underlies the basal surface of epithelial tissue
c) Underlies the inner endothelial lining of blood vessels
d) Covers nuclear lamina
d
8. Which of the following is an integral plasma membrane protein?
a) Fibrinogen
b) Collagen
c) Laminin
d) Integrins
d
9. Which of the following is not an integral membrane protein?
a) Selectin
b) Integrin
c) Cadherins
d) RAS proteins
d
10. Find the odd one out.
a) Members of IgSF
b) Cadherins
c) Selectins
d) Collagen
d
11. One of the roles of integral membrane proteins is to transfer information across the plasma membrane.
a) False
b) True
b
12. Which of the following integral membrane proteins can transmit signals from the extracellular environment to the cytoplasm?
a) Integrins only
b) Catherins only
c) Laminins
d) Integrins and Catherins
d
13. Which of the following integral membrane protein is not involved in the inflammation process?
a) Integrin
b) Selectin
c) ICAM
d) Glycophorin
d
14. Which of the following transmembrane protein is reduced in malignant cells?
a) Integrins
b) Selectins
c) IgSF proteins
d) E-cadherins
d
15. Which of the following class of transmembrane proteins some members involved in immune functions and some members having a role in cell-cell adhesion?
a) Cadherins
b) Integrins
c) Selectins
d) Members of IgSF
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Protein Engineering.
To practice all areas of Protein Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Structure Function Relationships – Peripheral Membrane Proteins» Next - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Structure and Function of Transmembrane Proteins – 2 
