1. Which of the following proteins help in the refolding of proteins in Endoplasmic Reticulum?
a) TCP 1
b) GroES
c) GroEL
d) BIP
d
2. What are the Hsp60 like proteins called in bacterial cells?
a) BIP
b) TCP 1
c) GroES
d) GroEL
d
3. Which of the following does not lead to exposure of hydrophobic amino acids on the surface of a protein?
a) Failed to fold correctly
b) Protein suffered an accident
c) Failed to find its normal partner subunit
d) Proper folding of proteins
d
4. A misfolded protein or a protein with the abnormally exposed hydrophobic region is not merely useless to the cell, they can be dangerous.
a) False
b) True
b
5. What is the fate of misfolded proteins when attempts to refold it fail?
a) Sent back to the ribosome
b) Stored in vacuole
c) Kept in the cytosol
d) Destroyed by proteolysis
d
6. Which of the following is a complex protease, used to destroy protein molecules?
a) Ubiquitin
b) Chaperone
c) Proteosome
d) Proteasome
d
7. Which of the following event increases the diameter of the barrel (Hsp60)?
a) Binding of only cap protein
b) Binding of the only ATP
c) Hydrolysis of ATP
d) Binding of ATP and a protein cap
d
8. Which of the following is the protein Cap of barrel-shaped bacterial Hsp60 like proteins?
a) BIP
b) TCP 1
c) GroEL
d) GroES
d
9. Which of the following is not a model for the refolding of misfolded proteins?
a) Passive model
b) Active model
c) Iterative model
d) Intermediate model
d
10. Which of the following feature is pertaining to the passive model of the refolding of proteins?
a) Both ATP and GTP are required
b) GTP hydrolysis
c) ATP hydrolysis
d) No energy expenditure
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Protein Engineering.
To practice all areas of Protein Engineering for Experienced people,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Protein Folding – 1» Next - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Ubiquitin-Proteasome Pathway of Protein Degradation 
