1. Regulatory proteins have only protein-DNA interacting domains.
a) True
b) False
b
2. Which among the following motifs contain a positively charged ion?
a) Leucine zippers
b) H-T-H motif
c) Homeobox
d) Zinc fingers
d
3. The positively charged Zn+2 ion in the zinc finger interacts directly with the negatively charged phosphate in DNA.
a) True
b) False
b
4. Zn+2 ions in zinc fingers are coordinated to which amino acid residues?
a) 2 Met and 2 Cys
b) 4 Val or 2 Met and 2 Cys
c) 2 Ala and 2 Gly
d) 4 Cys or 2 Cys and 2 His
d
5. What is the average length of the elongated loop in zinc fingers?
a) 20 amino acid residues
b) 10 amino acid residues
c) 40 amino acid residues
d) 30 amino acid residues
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. The interaction of a single zinc finger with DNA is typically very strong.
a) True
b) False
b
7. Zinc fingers can also function as which of the following?
a) Lipid-binding motif
b) Carbohydrate-binding motif
c) Ribosome-binding motif
d) RNA-binding motif
d
8. Zinc fingers in found in many eukaryotic DNA-binding motifs.
a) False
b) True
b
9. Which of the following is not true for zinc fingers?
a) It contains a beta-sheet domain
b) It contains an alpha-helix domain
c) It contains Zn+2 ion
d) It contains Ca+2 ion
d
10. Zinc fingers are not able to interact with which of the following?
a) DNA
b) RNA
c) Poly-ADP-ribose
d) ATP
d
11. Zinc fingers do not have a role in which of the following processes?
a) Transcriptional regulation
b) Ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation
c) Signal transduction
d) Cellular transport
d
12. Most regulatory proteins have discrete DNA-binding domains, which contain one or more relatively small groups. What are these groups called?
a) Excretory motifs
b) Regulatory motifs
c) Catalytic motifs
d) Structural motifs
d
13. The side chains of which amino acid residues are not hydrogen-bonded to bases in the DNA?
a) Gln residue
b) Lys residue
c) Glu residue
d) Ala residue
d
14. What is the approximate length of DNA-binding domains of regulatory proteins?
a) 100-500 amino acid residues
b) 50-60 amino acid residues
c) 5-10 amino acid residues
d) 60-90 amino acid residues
d
15. Which of the following is a feature of DNA-binding sites for regulatory proteins?
a) Cytosine rich sequence
b) Guanine rich sequence
c) CpG repeats
d) Palindromic sequence
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Protein Engineering.
To practice all areas of Protein Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Structure Function Relationships – HTH Motif and Homeodomain» Next - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Structure Function Relationships – Leucine Zippers 
