1. Protein engineering can be potentially used in which of the following industries?
a) Ceramic
b) Iron
c) Furniture
d) Healthcare
d
2. The efficiency of a drug is not dependent on which of the following parameter?
a) Activity
b) Stability
c) Selectivity
d) General targeting
d
3. Which of the following are probes that mimic the molecular interactions of natural proteins?
a) Growth factors
b) Hormones and receptors
c) Enzymes
d) Peptides and peptidomimetics
d
4. Protein engineering can be used to produce peptide and polypeptide vaccines, especially for protection against hazardous viruses.
a) False
b) True
b
5. Which of the following technique is not used for Protein Engineering?
a) DNA shuffling
b) Error-prone PCR
c) rDNA technology
d) DNA fingerprinting
d
6. Which of the following cytokines has not been engineered for immunostimulation or therapeutic values?
a) IL-2
b) IL-6
c) IL-13
d) IL-1
d
7. Which of the following provides a cheaper and safer method for the production of vaccines?
a) Ribosome engineering
b) Mitochondria engineering
c) Nucleus engineering
d) Chloroplast engineering
d
8. Components of intracellular signal transduction machinery and proteins in the regulation of gene transcription are important targets of protein engineering.
a) False
b) True
b
9. Which of the following involves mimicking or blocking the activity of enzymes or natural peptides upon the design and synthesis of metabolically stable peptide analogs?
a) Auromimetics
b) Carbamimetics
c) Carcinomimetics
d) Peptidomimetics
d
10. Which of the following technique is a powerful method for single-cell analysis and is also used in protein engineering studies?
a) Western Blotting
b) PCR
c) ELISA
d) Flow cytometry
d
11. Which of the following is a 238-residue protein from the jellyfish Aequorea victoria?
a) Red fluorescent protein
b) Purple fluorescent protein
c) Green protein
d) Green fluorescent protein
d
12. Avidin and streptavidin are proteins that are structurally and functionally analogous.
a) False
b) True
b
13. Which of the following are a combination of antibodies and lipocalins?
a) Lipobodies
b) Antibody-calins
c) Lipobodies
d) Anticalins
d
14. GFP has low structural stability.
a) True
b) False
b
15. Which of the following is not an application of GFP?
a) Protein localization
b) Biomarkers
c) Protein-protein interaction
d) Protein modification
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Protein Engineering.
To practice all areas of Protein Engineering,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Targets – Industrial Enzymology» Next - Protein Engineering Questions and Answers – Applications – Antibody – 1 
