1. What is the use of the MQ2 Gas Sensor?
a) Object Identification
b) To provide 3G Connectivity
c) To measure presence of gas
d) To measure Wi-Fi strength
c
2. How many terminals does the MQ2 Gas Sensor have?
a) 1
b) 3
c) 2
d) 4
d
3. Does the MQ2 Gas Sensor have a fixed sensitivity?
a) Yes
b) No
b
4. What will happen if we supply a voltage of 25V to the Vcc of the MQ2 Gas Sensor?
a) Damage is caused
b) Module will shut down
c) Module will not respond for the time the voltage is applied
d) Module will function normally
a
5. What is the maximum output voltage that the MQ2 Gas Sensor can put out on its analog output pin?
a) 1V
b) 140V
c) 5V
d) 10V
c
Join [email protected]
6. Can the MQ2 Gas Sensor differentiate between two different gases with the same PPM?
a) Yes
b) No
b
7. If the PPM concentration of a gas that is being detected by the MQ2 Gas Sensor increases what will happen to its Digital Output pin?
a) Voltage Increases
b) Voltage Decreases
c) Voltage becomes 0
d) Voltage doesn’t change
d
8. If the PPM concentration of a gas that is being detected by the MQ2 Gas Sensor increases what will happen to its Analog Output pin?
a) Voltage Increases
b) Voltage Decreases
c) Voltage becomes 0
d) Voltage doesn’t change
a
9. What is the full form of the abbreviation called PPM?
a) Parts Per Million
b) Parts Per Milligram
c) Parts Per Megagram
d) Parts Per Millilitre
a
10. What is the name of the mesh surrounding the MQ2 Gas Sensor?
a) Anti-Heat Mesh
b) Anti-Explosion Mesh
c) Anti-Air Mesh
d) Filtration Mesh
b
Sanfoundry Global Education   &   Learning Series – Arduino.
To practice advanced questions and answers on all areas of Microstrip Antenna, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Arduino Questions and Answers – RFID Module» Next - Arduino Questions and Answers – Rotary Encoder 
