1. What is the use of the Interrupt Service Routine in an Arduino?
a) To automate functions
b) To boot up the arduino
c) To make more memory
d) To exit any code that is running
a
2. What is the use of the digitalPinToInterrupt() function?
a) To create an Interrupt Object
b) To delete an Interrupt Object
c) To map the Arduino Pin to the Interrupt pin
d) To invoke the Interrupt Service Routine
c
3. What is the use of the attachInterrupt() function?
a) To enable ISR usage
b) To enable ISR usage, but only on certain Arduino Boards
c) To decommission ISR usage for a particular Arduino Board
d) To translate pin numbers
a
4. Will the delay() function work inside an interrupt routine?
a) Yes
b) No
b
5. What is the use of pin change interrupts?
a) To change pins during interrupts
b) To use more pins for interrupts
c) To disable pin usage during interrupts
d) To enable pin usage during interrupts
b
6. When does the Interrupt Handler execute it’s assigned code?
a) After all the codes executed in the program
b) Before any code is executed in the program
c) Blocks the code from getting executed at any time in the program
d) When the interrupt is in effect
d
7. What is the use of the interrupt mode?
a) Decides which type of transition to trigger on
b) Decides when to turn off interrupts
c) Decides which pin to turn off
d) Decides when to turn off the Arduino Board
a
RISING – Triggers interrupt when pin transitions from LOW to HIGH.
FALLING – Triggers interrupt when pin transitions from HIGH to LOW.
CHANGE – Triggers interrupt when pin transitions from LOW to HIGH or HIGH to LOW.
8. What is the use of the detachInterrupt() function?
a) To turn off interrupt
b) To turn on interrupt
c) To disable interrupt functions for the remaining ON time.
d) To turn off the Arduino
a
9. How many pins are available for interrupt functions in the Arduino Zero?
a) No pins
b) All pins except pin 4
c) Only pin 4
d) Only pin 3
b
10. How many pins are available for interrupt functions in the Arduino Uno?
a) No pins
b) All pins except pin 2 and 3
c) Only pin 2
d) Only pins 2 and 3
b
Sanfoundry Global Education   &   Learning Series – Arduino.
To practice all areas of Arduino, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Arduino Questions and Answers – Variable Scope and Qualifiers» Next - Arduino Questions and Answers – PROGMEM Utility 
