1. What is the use of the RESET button on the Arduino UNO?
a) To restart the code present in the Arduino
b) To restore a previous version of a code
c) To erase the code present in the Arduino
d) To erase the SRAM in Arduino Microcontroller
a
2. What is the use of the Vin pin present on some Arduino Boards?
a) To provide a 5V output
b) Is used for plugging in 3V supply
c) To power the Arduino Board
d) To ground the Arduino Board
c
3. What does the analogRead() function do physically when invoked in a code?
a) It accepts a digital Input
b) Reads the raw voltage value
c) Activates the ADC Circuit to read voltage values
d) Activates the DAC Circuit to read voltage values
c
4. What is the use for the 2 serial pins on the Arduino Diecimila?
a) To send and receive GPIO digital signals
b) To receive analog signals
c) To send PWM signals
d) To send and receive Serial TTL signals
d
5. The pins SS, SCK, MOSI and MISO on the Arduino belong to the ___ bus.
a) I2C
b) SPI
c) GPIO
d) Ethernet
b
6. What is the full form of the I2C Protocol?
a) Inter-Integrated Circuit
b) Intra-Integrated Circuit
c) Integrated-Inter Circuit
d) Infinite-Integrated Circuit
a
7. What is the function of the IOREF pin on the Arduino UNO?
a) To provide a constant 12V DC supply
b) To provide the voltage corresponding to the standard GPIO working voltage of the board
c) To take input voltage and set it as a reference for all GPIO operations
d) To provide ground
b
8. What is the function of the AREF pin in the Arduino UNO?
a) It is used as a reference voltage for all analog voltage calculations in the board
b) It is used as a reference voltage for all digital voltage calculations in the board
c) It is used as a reference voltage for the power source on the board
d) It is used as a reference voltage for the ground pins on the board
a
9. In the diagram given below, there are two sets given. These sets represent pin clusters on a typical Arduino UNO. Which set do the Digital IO pins on the Arduino UNO belong to?
a) Set A
b) Set B
c) Set A and B
d) Neither Set A nor B
b
10. What are the functions of the SDA and SCL pins of the Arduino UNO?
a) They facilitate I2C communications
b) They facilitate SPI Communications
c) They facilitate USB Communications
d) They facilitate Ethernet Communications
a
Sanfoundry Global Education   &   Learning Series – Arduino.
To practice all areas of Arduino, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Arduino Questions and Answers – Board Hardware Specifications» Next - Arduino Questions and Answers – Uses for Different Arduino Boards 
