1. What library is to be required for manipulating audio on the Arduino Due?
a) AudioMan.h
b) PulseAudio.h
c) Audio.h
d) Sound.h
c
2. Which of the following Arduino Boards does the USBHost Library work on?
a) Arduino Nano
b) Arduino Due
c) Arduino Uno
d) Arduino Micro
b
3. What is the function of the Scheduler Library?
a) To allow queueing of functions
b) To allow for cancelling of functions
c) To allow for parallel execution of functions
d) To allow for serial initialization of functions
c
4. Which Arduino Board Architectures can the Audio Frequency Meter Library work on?
a) SAM Architecture
b) Intel Architecture
c) SAMD Architecture
d) ARM Architecture
c
5. Which library allows for manipulating the real time clock of an Arduino?
a) RTC Library
b) RT Library
c) Clock Library
d) Time Library
a
6. Which Arduino Board does the SigFox Library work with?
a) Arduino MKR1000
b) Arduino MKRFOX1200
c) Arduino MKRZero
d) Arduino MKRFOX1230
b
7.  What is the use of the code given below?
#include<Esplora.h>void setup() {    Serial.begin(9600);}void loop() {    int v=Esplora.readSlider();    Serial.println(v);}
a) Read Potentiometer Value
b) Read Resistor Value
c) Read Transistor Voltage Value
d) Read Power Supply Voltage
a
8. What purpose does the Bridge Library serve on the Arduino Yun?
a) Connecting the Linux processor and the microcontroller onboard the Yun
b) Disconnecting the Linux processor and the microcontroller onboard the Yun
c) Making the Linux Processor the master device and the microcontroller, the slave device
d) Making the Linux Processor the slave device and the microcontroller, the master device
a
9. What is the purpose of the MKRNB Library?
a) Connecting to the internet over GSM
b) Connecting to the internet over Ethernet
c) Connecting to the internet over Wi-Fi
d) Connecting to the internet over LAN
a
10. Which of the following boards does the WifiNINA Library work on?
a) Arduino MKR 1010
b) Arduino Due
c) Arduino MKR VIDOR 3000
d) Arduino Micro
a
Sanfoundry Global Education   &   Learning Series – Arduino.
To practice all areas of Arduino, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Arduino Questions and Answers – Standard Libraries» Next - Arduino Questions and Answers – Serial and Stream Communications 
