1. What compiler toolchain is used to compile the Arduino Sketches?
a) AVR-G++/GCC
b) Python
c) PowerShell
d) Perl
a
2. Where does the Arduino IDE search if it needs to find out the Name of a type of Arduino Board?
a) build.txt
b) boards.txt
c) build.core
d) Arduino.h
b
3. What is the use of the Arduino.h header file?
a) It gives root access to the microcontroller’s file system
b) It enables the programmer to access all of Arduino’s core functionality
c) It allows other people to create libraries for the Arduino code
d) It doesn’t have any use and can be omitted at any point of time in the code
b
4. How many architectures does the Arduino subfolder in the Hardware section contain?
a) 2
b) 3
c) 4
d) 9
a
5. How many configuration files are there which allows us to customize the architecture in an Arduino in order to add support for custom boards?
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4
c
6. After the compilation process, the file containing the assembly instructions for the microcontroller is stored in a file. What is the file type?
a) .o
b) .hex
c) .cpp
d) .hpp
b
7. Which of the following file format is generated once the C code is compiled?
a) .c
b) .h
c) .ino
d) .o
d
8. What is the .d file format’s use in C?
a) For managing dependencies
b) For the D programming language
c) For storing the variables and memory locations
d) For creating new errors in dependencies
a
9. Why does every compilation of a source code in Arduino check for previous compilations?
a) To delete the previously generated “.o” files
b) To use the previously generated “.o” files
c) To relocate the previously generated “.o” files
d) To copy the previously generated “.o” files
b
10. How to view each command that gets executed during the compilation process?
a) Enable Verbose Output
b) Disable Verbose Output
c) Show Sketch Folder
d) Open Serial Plotter
a
Sanfoundry Global Education   &   Learning Series – Arduino.
To practice all areas of Arduino, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Arduino Questions and Answers – Preprocessing» Next - Arduino Questions and Answers – Uploading 
