1. Which of the following does not fit in the criteria of ‘added value’ in a typical strategic measurement system?
a) Increase in revenue per employee
b) Increase in gross added value
c) Increase in net added value
d) % reduction of rejects and scraps
d
2.  Which of the following does not fit in the criteria of ‘throughput time’ in a typical strategic measurement system?
a) Reduction in throughput time
b) Increase in manufacturing cycle effectiveness
c) Reduction in the number of breakdowns
d) Increase in revenue per employee
d
3. Which of the following is not an indicator of ‘throughput time’ in a typical strategic measurement system?
a) Increase in availability
b) Increase in invoicing speed
c) Increase in gross added value
d) Reduction in time between order and delivery
c
4. Which of the following is not an indicator of ‘productivity’ in a typical strategic measurement system?
a) Increase in productivity
b) Reduction in throughput time
c) Increase in the effectiveness
d) Increase in the efficiency
b
5. Which of the following is not a measure of ‘productivity’ in a typical strategic measurement system?
a) Increase in availability
b) Increase in revenue growth
c) Increase in sales and market growth
d) % reduction in personnel turnover
a
6. Which of the following is not a measure of ‘quality’ in a typical strategic measurement system?
a) % increase in quality grade
b) % reduction in failure rate
c) % reduction in the cost of poor quality
d) Increase in invoicing speed
d
7. Which of the following is not an indicator of ‘quality’ in a typical strategic measurement system?
a) Reduction in the number of customer complaints
b) % reduction in rejects and scraps
c) % reduction of safety and environmental incidents
d) Reduction in the number of breakdowns
d
8. ‘Time series trend graphs’ is one of the basic techniques for presenting performance measures.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Total Quality Management.
To practice advanced questions and answers on all areas of Total Quality Management,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Performance Indicators – 3» Next - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Performance Measures – Quality Awards 
