1. Which of the following is a dimension of ‘product quality’?
a) Machinability
b) Probability
c) Customer Satisfaction
d) Durability
d
2. The nominal size of a product is 30 mm. The acceptable industrial limits are from 29.98 mm to 30.02 mm. After manufacturing, the quality engineer finds the lower limit of the manufactured product to be 29.00 mm while the upper limit is 30.01 mm. What can you infer from the given scenario?
a) There is no failure because both the upper and lower limits of the manufactured product are within the industrial standard limits
b) There is a failure because the upper limit is below 30.02 mm
c) There is a failure because the lower limit is below 29.98 mm
d) We cannot comment on the failure of the dimensions of the manufactured product
c
3. Priyanka bought a new mobile phone for herself. She explained to her friend that the mobile phone has a camera, Facebook facility, and music facility in addition to the basic functions like phone calls and messaging. Which dimension of ‘product quality’ is Priyanka referring to?
a) Aesthetics
b) Conformance
c) Features
d) Reputation
c
4. Suresh calls up the customer care to complain regarding his new earphones. He can’t listen to the other side when his earphones are connected to his mobile phone. Which dimension of ‘product quality’ has the earphones failed to comply with?
a) Performance
b) Features
c) Aesthetics
d) Reputation
a
5. Andrew bought a new mobile phone from the market. While studying its specifications, he realizes that the mobile phone fails to comply with the national standards. Which dimension of ‘product quality’ has the mobile phone failed in?
a) Reputation
b) Aesthetics
c) Durability
d) Conformance
d
6. Which dimension of product quality tells you about the probability that a product will perform its function for a given period of time under specified conditions?
a) Aesthetics
b) Reputation
c) Reliability
d) Conformance
c
7. Which of the following is the primary characteristic of an electric kettle while referring to its ‘performance’?
a) It should boil water efficiently
b) It should indicate the pouring temperature of the water
c) It should be red in color
d) It should be white in color
a
8. Which of the following is not the best MTBF for a newly purchased laptop?
a) 1 month
b) 2 years
c) 3 years
d) 5 years
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Total Quality Management.
To practice all areas of Total Quality Management,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – TQM – Definitions of Other Key Words» Next - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – TQM – Dimensions of Product Quality – 2 
