1. When did the Quality Council of India form?
a) 1993
b) 1997
c) 1998
d) 1999
b
2. A _______ is a team that provides overall direction for achieving total quality culture.
a) Quality Council
b) Quality Management
c) Quality Chancellor
d) Quality Commissioner
a
3. The objective of the Quality Council team is to establish quality in the work culture of the organization.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Who among the following is not part of a Quality Council team of an organization?
a) CEO
b) Senior managers of functional areas
c) Quality Council coordinator or consultant
d) External customer
d
5. Which of the following is not a method that can be implemented by the Quality Council team to promote quality consciousness in the organization?
a) Seminars
b) Study Tours
c) Training
d) Threatening the workforce to follow the quality policy
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. In a production company, the testing and calibration facilities have not been upgraded. What is the duty of the Quality Council team?
a) There is no need to worry to upgrade the existing facilities
b) Immediately plan to upgrade the existing facilities
c) Planning to upgrade the existing facilities is a crime
d) Wait for the existing facilities to fail
b
7. To encourage basic and applied R&D in the field of quality and sharing the results with the organization is one of the duties of the Quality Council team.
a) False
b) True
b
8. Which of the following is not the responsibility of the Quality Council Coordinator?
a) To develop two-way trust
b) To empower the team
c) To share council expectations with the team
d) To develop one-way trust
d
9. Which of the following is not the duty of the Quality Council?
a) To establish the core values and quality statements
b) To end the planning of training and education programs
c) To determine and monitor the cost of poor quality
d) To establish the strategic long – term plan with goals
b
10. Which of the following is not the duty of the Quality Council?
a) To perform and monitor the performance measure of each functional area
b) To determine continually those projects that improve the processes affecting customer satisfaction
c) To establish the multi-functional project and departmental teams and monitor their progress
d) To prevent establishing/revising the recognition and reward system periodically
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Total Quality Management.
To practice all areas of Total Quality Management,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – TQM Leadership Styles» Next - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – TQM Leadership – Strategic Quality Planning 
