1. What does FMEA stand for?
a) Failure Modes and Effects Analysis
b) Failure Modes and Effective Analysis
c) Failure Modes and Affective Analysis
d) Failure Modes and Efficient Analysis
a
2. To anticipate failures and prevent them from happening is the objective of FMEA.
a) True
b) False
a
3. What is RPN?
a) Risk Potential Number
b) Risk Priority Number
c) Risk Preference number
d) Risk Preventive Number
b
4. The analysis of potential failures of product or service due to component or subsystem unreliability is involved in design FMEA.
a) True
b) False
a
5. Find the odd one out related to the FMEA team.
a) Assembly engineer
b) Manufacturing engineer
c) Quality engineer
d) Process variability data
d
6.  Find the odd one out related to the data inputs required to prepare FMEA.
a) Product and process specifications
b) Reliability data
c) Customer priority data
d) Quality engineer
d
7. Which of the following is not a benefit of FMEA?
a) Increase in customer satisfaction
b) Prioritize product/process deficiencies
c) Maximize late changes and associated cost
d) Document and track actions taken to reduce risk
c
8. A particular product has been given the following rankings for calculating RPN while preparing FMEA chart, S=10, O=2, D=2. What is the value of RPN?
a) 20
b) 10
c) 40
d) 2
c
9. There are four stages of FMEA.
i) Specifyingthe possibilities
ii) Quantifying risk
iii) Correcting high risk causes
iv) Re-evaluation of Risk
Which is the correct order of proceeding with these stages of FMEA?
a) i),ii),iii),iv)
b) i),ii),iv),iii)
c) iv),iii),i),ii)
d) iv),iii),ii),i)
a
10. According to common industry scale, what does severity ranking (S) 1 indicate?
a) Very serious effect
b) No effect
c) Sometimes serious effect
d) The value doesn’t exist
b
11. According to common industry scale, what does occurrence ranking (O) 1 indicate?
a) Not likely
b) Highly likely
c) Certain to happen
d) The value doesn’t exist
a
12. According to common industry scale, what does detection ranking (D) 1 indicate?
a) Can’t be determined
b) Uncertainty in detection
c) The value doesn’t exist
d) Certainly detectable
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Total Quality Management.
To practice all areas of Total Quality Management,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Types of Benchmarking – 2» Next - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Statistics for TQMR – 1 
