1. Six Sigma follows the DMAIC model.
a) True
b) False
a
2. Which of the following is not part of the ‘Define’ activity in the DMAIC Model of Six Sigma?
a) Identification of project
b) Identification of champion
c) Identification of project owner
d) Identification of founder of the business
d
3. Which of the following does not belong to the ‘Define’ activity in the DMAIC Model of Six Sigma?
a) Determination of customer requirements
b) Determination of CTQs
c) Validating the measurements
d) Mapping the process
c
4. Defining the problem, objective, goals, and benefits belong to the ‘Define’ activity in the DMAIC Model of Six Sigma.
a) True
b) False
a
5. Which of the following is not a tool used in the ‘Define’ process in the DMAIC Model of Six Sigma?
a) Project charter and plan
b) Check sheet
c) Effort/impact analysis
d) Process mapping
b
6. Which of the following is not a tool used in the ‘Measure’ process in the DMAIC Model of Six Sigma?
a) Quality Function Deployment
b) Measurement Systems Analysis
c) Process capability
d) Tree diagram
d
7. Which of the following is not part of the ‘Measure’ activity in the DMAIC Model of Six Sigma?
a) Determining operational definitions
b) Establishing performance standards
c) Developing the project plan
d) Developing data collection and sample plan
c
8. Which of the following is not a tool used in the ‘Analyze’ process in the DMAIC Model of Six Sigma?
a) Quality Function Deployment
b) Histogram
c) Pareto Diagram
d) Run chart
a
9. Which of the following is not part of the ‘Improve’ activity in the DMAIC Model of Six Sigma?
a) Determination of solution effectiveness using data
b) Implementing solution
c) Developing solution alternatives
d) Closing project and communicating results
d
10. Which of the following is not a tool used in the ‘Improve’ process in the DMAIC Model of Six Sigma?
a) Design of Experiments
b) Brainstorming
c) Statistical Process Control
d) Failure Mode Effect Analysis
c
11. What does the letter ‘D’ and ‘V’ refer to in the DMADV model?
a) Data, Verify
b) Design, Validate
c) Data, Validate
d) Design, Verify
d
12. OCAP refers to ________
a) On Control Action Plan
b) Out of Control Action Plan
c) Out of Concern Action Plan
d) Out of Control Assessment Plan
b
13. The Six Sigma model used for improving the existing process/product is _______
a) DMAIC
b) DMAAD
c) DMADV
d) DMAAX
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Total Quality Management.
To practice all areas of Total Quality Management,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Basic Concepts of Six Sigma» Next - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Basic Concepts of QFD 
