1. A company producing biscuits implemented TQM philosophy. It collected feedback data for the age group 50 to 60 years and determined the number of people using the company’s biscuits and how satisfied they were with the product. Where did the company go wrong in its analysis?
a) Identified the wrong age group
b) It must take into consideration a larger age group
c) It should not determine the number of people using their product and their level of satisfaction
d) There is no mistake in their TQM approach
b
2. The inability to change the organizational structure is a barrier to TQM implementation.
a) True
b) False
a
3. The lack of proper training to the employees can act as a barrier to TQM implementation.
a) True
b) False
a
4. A company including its manager has 50 members. TQM philosophy is followed by 40 members only. Did the company properly implement TQM?
a) Yes, only 25 members were sufficient for TQM implementation
b) No, TQM implementation requires the participation of all members of the company
c) Yes, only 14 members were sufficient for TQM implementation
d) We cannot comment on TQM implementation
b
5. The 10 years performance of a company was analyzed. The company followed TQM philosophy for the first two years and moved back to traditional management. What can you conclude about the management culture of the company?
a) Lack of management commitment to follow TQM
b) Lack of management commitment to follow traditional management
c) The management of the company is properly functioning
d) We cannot comment on the management culture of the company
a
6. A defect in a product produced by a company was reported to the quality division. The quality division rectified the defect and presented the solution to the rest of the members of the organization including its manager. But the organization delayed the implementation for more than a month. What will be the consequence of this act?
a) There is no problem in delaying the implementation
b) The company will start to fail in satisfying customer needs and hence customer satisfaction
c) The customer will respect the delay in implementation
d) The manager will be sacked by the founder of the company
b
7. Which of the following is a tangible benefit of following TQM?
a) Reduction in employee grievances
b) Increase in employee grievances
c) No change in employee grievances
d) We can’t comment on employee grievances
a
8. Which of the following is not a tangible benefit of following TQM?
a) Increased profitability
b) Increased market and customers
c) Improved productivity
d) Increase in quality costs
d
9. The product quality after using TQM philosophy _______
a) Increases
b) Decreases
c) Remains the same
d) We cannot comment on product quality
a
10. Which of the following is not an intangible benefit of following TQM?
a) Better company image
b) Enhanced problem-solving capacity
c) Enhancement of job interest
d) Reduction in customer satisfaction
d
11. The working relationships after using TQM philosophy _______
a) Declines
b) Remains the same
c) Improves
d) We cannot comment on working relationships
c
12. Employee participation after using TQM philosophy _______
a) Declines
b) Remains the same
c) Improves
d) We cannot comment on working relationships
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Total Quality Management.
To practice all areas of Total Quality Management,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Characteristics of TQM – 2» Next - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Quality Gurus – Deming 
