1. Which of the following is not a determinant of the ‘human resources’ functional element while measuring the performance of an organization?
a) Percentage of personnel turnover
b) Percentage of absence due to illness
c) Employee satisfaction index
d) Average lead time
d
2. Which of the following is not an indicator of ‘human resources’ functional element while measuring the performance of an organization?
a) Number of training hours per employee
b) Number of active teams
c) Number of suggestions/grievances
d) Material productivity
d
3. The percentage of safety incidents and the percentage of environmental incidents are indicators of which functional element while measuring the performance of an organization?
a) Research and development
b) Suppliers
c) Human resources
d) Customers
c
4. Which of the following is not an indicator of ‘marketing/sales’ functional element while measuring the performance of an organization?
a) Sales growth
b) Failure rate
c) Market growth
d) The percentage of delivery completed
b
5. Which of the following is not a determinant of the ‘marketing/sales’ functional element while measuring the performance of an organization?
a) Sales expense to revenue
b) New customers
c) Order accuracy
d) Quality grade
d
6. Which of the following is not a determinant of the ‘administration’ functional element while measuring the performance of an organization?
a) Revenue growth
b) Throughput time
c) Revenue per employee
d) Expense to revenue
b
7. Which of the following is not an indicator of ‘administration’ functional element while measuring the performance of an organization?
a) Number of breakdowns
b) Cost of poor quality
c) Percentage of payroll distribution on time
d) Office equipment up-time
a
8. Billing accuracy and invoicing speed are indicators of which functional element while measuring the performance of an organization?
a) Administration
b) Suppliers
c) Human resources
d) Customers
a
9. Which of the following is not a criterion of the performance measures?
a) Simple
b) Few in number
c) Developed by users
d) Irrelevance to customers
d
10. Which of the following is not a performance measure criterion?
a) Continuous improvement
b) Cost
c) Transparency
d) Misaligned
d
11. The performance measures must be time-based.
a) True
b) False
a
12. The performance measure results must align with the interest of all stakeholders.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Total Quality Management.
To practice all written questions on Total Quality Management,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Performance Indicators – 2» Next - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Strategy for implementing Performance Measures 
