1. Who among the following is not an American Quality Guru?
a) Crosby
b) Ishikawa
c) Juran
d) Deming
b
2. Which of the following is not a contribution made by Deming?
a) Deming’s 14 points
b) System of Profound Knowledge
c) Deming Cycle
d) Taguchi Loss Function
d
3. According to Deming’s 14 points, which of the following is the meaning of ‘Adopt the new philosophy’?
a) To adopt the new philosophy that was displayed in the newspaper
b) To hire new philosophy for the company
c) To be aware of new challenges, responsibilities and to adopt them
d) To sell old philosophy and start a new philosophy
c
4. According to Deming’s 14 points, which of the following is the meaning of ‘Cease dependence on inspection to achieve quality’?
a) Eliminate the need for inspection on a mass basis
b) Inspection is not good for the product
c) Inspection is independent
d) Inspection cannot bring quality in products
a
5. Which of the following does not belong to Deming’s 14 points on route to quality?
a) Create constancy of purpose towards improvement of product and services
b) Adopt the new philosophy
c) Cease dependence on inspection to achieve quality
d) Start the practice of awarding business on the basis of price tag
d
6. Which of the following does not belong to Deming’s 14 points on route to quality?
a) End the practice of awarding business on the basis of the price tag
b) Improve constantly and forever the system of product and service
c) End the concept of training
d) Institute leadership
c
7. ‘Drive out fear’ is one of Deming’s 14 points on route to quality.
a) False
b) True
b
8. ‘Creation of barriers between departments’ is one of Deming’s 14 points on route to quality.
a) False
b) True
a
9. What is the other name of Deming’s cycle?
a) PDCA
b) ADCA
c) MDCA
d) SDCA
a
10. Which of the following does not belong to ‘Seven Deadly Diseases of Management’?
a) Lack of constancy of purpose
b) Emphasis on short term profits
c) Reliance on performance appraisals and profits
d) Immobility of top management
d
11. Which of the following does not belong to ‘Seven Deadly Diseases of Management’?
a) Reliance on financial figures
b) Excessive medical costs
c) Excessive legal costs
d) Absence of reliance on financial figures
d
12. What do you mean by ‘System of Profound Knowledge’ described by Deming?
a) Management by positive co-operation
b) Management by negative co-operation
c) Management by unstable co-operation
d) Management by pessimistic co-operation
a
13. Which of the following is not a key element of the ‘System of Profound Knowledge’?
a) Hatred for a system
b) Knowledge of statistical theory
c) Theory of knowledge
d) Knowledge of Psychology
a
14. According to Deming’s 14 points, the barrier to the pride of workmanship should be ______
a) Removed
b) Promoted
c) Established
d) Encouraged
a
15. According to Deming’s 14 points, the vigorous program of education and self – improvement must be ________
a) Instituted
b) Removed
c) Discouraged
d) Demoted
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Total Quality Management.
To practice all areas of Total Quality Management,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Benefits and Barriers of TQM» Next - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Quality Gurus – Juran 
