1. The product planning phase of product development using the QFD process begins with the customer requirements.
a) True
b) False
a
2. The product planning phase of product development using the QFD process is actually the steps involved in building the house of quality.
a) True
b) False
a
3. Which of the following is not a task performed under the ‘part development’ phase in the QFD process?
a) Deployment of the QFD process down to sub-components level
b) Deployment of the component deployment chart
c) Relating the critical sub-component control characteristics
d) Discovering customer requirements
d
4. Which of the following statement is incorrect related to the QFD process?
a) Improves customer satisfaction
b) Promotes teamwork
c) Demotes better understanding of customer demands
d) Focuses on the design efforts
c
5. Which of the following is an incorrect statement related to the QFD process?
a) A better understanding of design interactions
b) Breaks down the barrier between functions and departments
c) Better documentation of the design and development process
d) Maximizes the number of engineering changes
d
Join [email protected]
6. Which of the following is not a tangible benefit of the QFD process?
a) Reduction in start-up and engineering cost
b) Increase of overall costs
c) Reduction in development time
d) Early identification of high-risk areas
b
7. The use of QFD process leads to _____ efficient allocation of resources.
a) Less
b) Very less
c) More
d) Equally
c
8. Which of the following is not an intangible benefit of the QFD process?
a) Increase in development time
b) Improvement in customer satisfaction
c) Strengthens customer-company relationship
d) Facilitating multidisciplinary teamwork
a
9. Which of the following task is not performed during the ‘production planning’ phase of the OFD process?
a) Developing prototype
b) Studying technical descriptors
c) Launching the final product
d) Tabulation of operating instructions from the process requirements
b
10. Which of the following is not a phase involved in product development in the QFD process?
a) Product planning
b) Statistical planning
c) Process planning
d) Production planning
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Total Quality Management.
To practice all areas of Total Quality Management,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – QFD – House of Quality» Next - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – TPM Vs. TQM 
