1. Which of the following is not an advantage of process benchmarking?
a) To make the process effective
b) To make the process efficient
c) To make the process faster
d) To make the process ineffective
d
2. Process benchmarking can be used in customer complaint processes.
a) True
b) False
a
3. Strategic benchmarking shows long term benefits.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Which of the following is not a type of comparison made through strategic benchmarking?
a) Business approaches comparison
b) Business strategy comparison
c) Number of managers in each company
d) Business model comparison
c
5. Which of the following is not a technique used during performance benchmarking?
a) Reverse engineering
b) Analysis of operating statistics
c) Direct product or service comparison
d) To understand business strategy
d
6. Which of the following is not put under focus during performance benchmarking?
a) Elements of cost
b) Technical quality
c) Number of employees in organization
d) Product or service features
c
7. Which of the following is not an example of functional performance benchmarking?
a) Employee net promoter score
b) Number of managers in organization
c) Staff engagement surveys
d) Brand awareness
b
8. Revenue growth and customer satisfaction can be assessed through _______
a) Performance benchmarking
b) Process benchmarking
c) Strategic benchmarking
d) Poka Yoke
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Total Quality Management.
To practice all areas of Total Quality Management for Campus Interviews,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Types of Benchmarking – 1» Next - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Failure Mode and Effect Analysis 
