1. Which among the following is not a contribution made by Juran?
a) Juran’s Quality Control Handbook
b) Quality Planning and Analysis
c) Juran on Leadership for Quality
d) Quality is Free
d
2. Which among the following is not part of Juran’s ‘Three Role Model’?
a) Supplier
b) Process
c) Customer
d) Deming
d
3. Which among the following is not a contribution made by Juran?
a) Internal Customer
b) Cost of Quality
c) Quality Trilogy
d) Quality Loss Function
d
4. Which among the following does not belong to the classification of Cost of Quality done by Juran?
a) Failure Costs
b) Appraisal Costs
c) Prevention Costs
d) Variable Costs
d
5. Which among the following does not belong to Juran’s Quality Trilogy?
a) Quality Planning
b) Quality Control
c) Quality Improvement
d) Quality Assurance
d
6. Which among the following does not belong to Juran’s ten steps to quality improvement?
a) Build awareness of the need and opportunity for improvement
b) Set goals for improvement
c) Organize to reach goals
d) Adopt the new philosophy
d
7. ‘Carry out projects to solve problems’ is a statement belonging to Juran’s ten steps to quality improvement.
a) True
b) False
a
8. ‘Report progress’ is a statement belonging to Juran’s ten steps to quality improvement.
a) True
b) False
a
9. Identify from Juran’s ten steps to quality improvement a statement which implies providing a morale boost.
a) Organize to reach goals
b) Adopt the new philosophy
c) Give recognition
d) Provide Training
c
10. ‘Communicate results’ is a statement from Juran’s ten steps to quality improvement. Which of the following is the odd one out with respect to it?
a) Lessons learned
b) Provide training
c) The steps that have been taken to improve quality
d) The feedback that has been given to the manager of the company
b
11. Which of the following does not mean to ‘Keep score’ from Juran’s ten steps to quality improvement?
a) Track progress
b) Report achievements
c) Report short-falls
d) Set goals for improvement
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Total Quality Management.
To practice all areas of Total Quality Management,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Quality Gurus – Deming» Next - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Quality Gurus – Crosby 
