1. According to Teboul’s model of customer satisfaction, identify the regions shaded in red, green and yellow respectively.
a) Company Offer, Customer Satisfaction, Customer Needs
b) Customer Satisfaction, Customer Needs, Company Offer
c) Customer Needs, Customer Satisfaction, Company Offer
d) Customer Needs, Company Offer, Customer Satisfaction
a
2. Who among the following is not a hidden customer?
a) Regulators
b) Critics
c) Opinion leaders
d) Managers
d
3. Those who are not currently using the product but have the capability of becoming customers in future are called __________
a) Potential Customers
b) Hidden Customers
c) Suppliers
d) Processors
a
4. Organizations / People who use the product or output as an input for producing their own product are called _________
a) Potential Customers
b) Hidden Customers
c) Suppliers
d) Processors
d
5. Who among the following do not fall under the category of External Customers?
a) Purchasers
b) Merchants
c) Hidden Customers
d) Quality Management Unit of a Company
d
6. According to ASQ survey, which of the following is not part of customer perceptions?
a) Performance
b) Features
c) Service
d) Discredit
d
7. In the modern world, warranty attached to a product attracts and build markets.
a) True
b) False
a
8. Reputation of a firm brings the market to them and fetches them more customers.
a) True
b) False
a
9. Which among the following is not a factor influencing customer perception of quality before making a purchase?
a) Company’s brand name and image
b) Opinions of friends
c) Spare parts availability
d) Published Test Results
c
10. Which among the following does not fall under the category of factors influencing customer perception of quality before making a purchase?
a) Previous experience
b) Advertised price for performance
c) Store reputation
d) Reliability
d
11. Which among the following does not fall under the category of factors influencing customer perception of quality at the point of making a purchase?
a) Performance specifications
b) Comments of sales people
c) Warranty provisions
d) Service effectiveness
d
12. Which among the following is not a factor influencing customer perception of quality at the point of making a purchase?
a) Service and Repair Policies
b) Support Programs
c) Quoted Price for Performance
d) Comparative Performance
d
13. Which among the following is not a factor influencing customer perception of quality after making a purchase?
a) Ease of use
b) Ease of installation
c) Previous experience
d) Handling of repairs claims and warranty
c
14. Which of the following is not the best way to gather information about customer needs?
a) Information on competitor’s products
b) Personal visits to customer locations
c) Employees with special knowledge of the customer
d) Threatening customers to tell their needs
d
15. Which of the following cannot be considered as a technique to gather information about customer needs?
a) Customer meetings
b) Tracking customer complaints
c) Government or Independent Laboratory Data
d) Waiting for customer to come and tell about their needs
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Total Quality Management.
To practice all areas of Total Quality Management,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Cost of Quality – 2» Next - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Customer Satisfaction – 2 
