1. Participation is not always voluntary in all cases in quality circle.
a) True
b) False
a
2. There is no involvement of trade unions in quality circles.
a) True
b) False
a
3. Participation fades away when there is lack of support from ________
a) Top management
b) Bottom management
c) Intermediate management
d) Customers
a
4. Which of the following is not a tangible gain of quality circle?
a) Better quality
b) Productivity improvement
c) Higher safety
d) Enriched quality of work life
d
5. Which of the following is not a tangible gain of quality circle?
a) Greater cost effectiveness
b) Better housekeeping
c) Increased profitability
d) Attitudinal changes
d
6. Which of the following is not a tangible gain of quality circle?
a) Waste reduction
b) Reduced absenteeism
c) Reduced grievances
d) Harmony, mutual trust
d
7. Which of the following is not an intangible gain of quality circle?
a) Effective team working
b) Better human relations
c) Participative culture
d) Waste reduction
d
8. Which of the following is not an intangible gain of quality circle?
a) Human resource development
b) Promotion of job knowledge
c) Greater sense of belonging
d) Greater cost effectiveness
d
9. Which of the following is not a benefit of quality circles’ effects on individuals’ characteristics?
a) It enables the individual to improve personal capabilities
b) It increases the individuals’ self-respect
c) It helps workers change certain personality characteristics
d) It increases the conflict stemming from the working environment
d
10. Which of the following is not a benefit of quality circles’ effects on individuals’ relation with others?
a) It increases the respect of the supervisor for the workers
b) It increases workers’ understanding of the difficulties faced by the supervisors
c) It increases management’s respect for workers
d) It change some workers’ negative attitudes
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Total Quality Management.
To practice all areas of Total Quality Management,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Process of Quality Circle Operation» Next - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Seven Tools of Quality – Flow Chart and Check Sheet 
