1. Empowerment is the opposite of ________
a) Motivated
b) Accomplishment
c) Helplessness
d) Goal
c
2. Which are the two important factors on which empowerment depend on?
a) Individual’s personal choices and his family choices
b) Individual’s personal choices and his manager’s choice
c) Individual’s personal choices and the organizational climate
d) The organizational climate and his manager’s choice
c
3. In the work environment, what is the meaning of empowerment?
a) Providing people the means, ability and authority to do something they have not done before
b) Discouraging people from doing something they have not done before
c) Threatening people to do something they have not done before
d) Threatening people to do something they have done before
a
4. Which of the following is odd one out with respect to the operational definition of empowerment?
a) People have ability to take responsibility and ownership
b) People have the confidence in taking responsibility and ownership
c) People are committed to take responsibility and ownership
d) People fear to take responsibility and ownership
d
5. Job ______ targets expanding the content of an individual’s job.
a) Enrichment
b) Nourishment
c) Empowerment
d) Card
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Job ______ targets expanding the context of an individual’s job.
a) Enrichment
b) Nourishment
c) Empowerment
d) Card
c
7. Which of the following is not a condition required to create the empowered environment?
a) Everyone must understand the need for change
b) Some people must understand the need for change
c) The system needs to change to the new paradigm
d) The organization must provide information, education and skill to its employees
b
8. Which of the following is not a characteristic of empowered employees?
a) They are responsible for their own task
b) They are given a free hand in their work
c) They balance their own goals with those of the organization
d) They are not well trained, equipped, and creative and customer oriented
d
9. Which of the following is not a characteristic of empowered employees?
a) They are critical, have self-esteem, and are motivated
b) They are challenged and encouraged
c) They monitor and improve their work continuously
d) They do not find new goals and change challenges
d
10. Which of the following is not a way to empower employees in an organization?
a) Telling them what their responsibilities are
b) Giving them authority equal to the responsibility assigned to them
c) Setting standards of excellence
d) Closing all training opportunities
d
11. Which of the following is not a way to empower employees in an organization?
a) Giving them knowledge and information
b) Providing them with feedback on their performance
c) Trusting them and creating trustworthiness in the organization
d) Hurting their dignity and respect
d
12. To have an empowered organization, we should allow the workforce to fail but guide them and counsel them when needed.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Total Quality Management.
To practice all areas of Total Quality Management,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Employee Motivation – 2» Next - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – Teams and Teamwork – 1 
