1. Choose the incorrect statement regarding the need for quality.
a) Markets have become more competitive
b) Quality provides sustained performance
c) Quality provides customer satisfaction
d) It is the trend nowadays to introduce quality
d
2. Michael bought a new washing machine which is not performing its primary function of washing clothes properly. What should the executive at customer care suggest Michael?
a) To sell the washing machine
b) To buy a new washing machine
c) To assure the customer that a specialist will visit their house the following day
d) To lease the washing machine
c
3. Quality is fitness for use. Identify the quality guru who said this.
a) Deming
b) Crosby
c) Juran
d) Taguchi
c
4. How can quality be quantified? (Q=Quality, P=Performance, E=Expectations)
a) Q=P/E
b) Q=P+E
c) Q=P-E
d) Q=P*E
a
5. Quality is conformance to requirements. Identify the quality guru who said this.
a) Ishikawa
b) Crosby
c) Ohno
d) Deming
b
6. Quality is a predictable degree of uniformity and dependability at a low cost and suited to the market. Identify the quality guru who said this.
a) Ishikawa
b) Shingo
c) Deming
d) Harrington
c
7. What does the abbreviation A.S.Q stand for?
a) American Society for Quality
b) American Standard of Quality
c) Asian Society for Quality
d) Asian Standard for Quality
a
8. According to Deming’s Quality Chain Reaction, quality improvement results in decreased productivity.
a) True
b) False
b
9. Quality is in its essence, a way of managing the organization. Identify the quality guru who said this.
a) Deming
b) Juran
c) Feigenbaum
d) Shingo
c
10. Quality is the minimum loss imparted by a product to society from the time product is shipped. Identify the quality guru who said this.
a) Shingo
b) Taguchi
c) Crosby
d) Juran
b
11. According to ISO, Quality is the totality of features and characteristics of a product or service that bear on its ability to satisfy stated and implied needs of the customer.
a) False
b) True
b
12. Shawn ordered pizza online. He received the pizza 15 minutes before the scheduled delivery time. He also received cash back on the amount he had paid for the pizza. What can you infer?
a) Customer expectation of the service is less than customer perception of the service
b) Customer expectation of the service is equal to the customer perception of the service
c) Customer expectation of the service is greater than customer perception of the service
d) Customer expectation of the service and customer perception of the service cannot be compared
a
13. The systematic activities and planned activities which provide adequate confidence that the manufactured products are meeting the requirements is called ______
a) Quality assurance
b) Quality control
c) Inspection
d) Sampling
a
14. Choose the incorrect statement related to quality improvement.
a) Reduces rework
b) Leads to greater uniformity of product
c) Increases output with lowered cost
d) Increases machine time
d
15. A senior quality engineer during a training session trains his juniors about a particular common defect that has been found in their assembly. He has formulated a plan which will rectify the defect and ensure that the same defect does not pass further to the customers.  Which of the following inference is incorrect?
a) The organization has ensured that customer satisfaction is retained
b) The juniors will be capable of preventing the defect to pass further to the customers
c) The senior has understood that quality is correcting and preventing the loss, not living with loss
d) The customer forced them to rectify the defect
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Total Quality Management.
To practice all areas of Total Quality Management,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
» Next - Total Quality Management Questions and Answers – TQM – Definitions of Other Key Words 
