1. Name the physiochemical process in which chemical energy is produced by light energy with the help of a photosynthetic organism?
a) Photosynthesis
b) Respiration
c) Oxidative decarboxylation
d) Oxidative phosphorylation
a
2. Classification of organisms as oxygenic or anoxygenic during photosynthesis is based on ______
a) The presence of Co2
b) The generation of oxygen
c) The presence of light
d) The presence of water
b
3.  Which of the following is an anoxygenic photosynthetic organism?
a) Plants
b) Photosynthetic protists
c) Cyanobacteria
d) Green and Purple photosynthetic organism
d
4.  Which of the following is not a lipid-soluble photosynthetic pigment?
a) Phycobilins
b) Carotenoids
c) Chlorophyll
d) Xanthophylls
a
5.  Which of these features are not of chlorophyll?
a) It has Mg2+ as the central metal ion
b) It has cyclopentanone ring fused with a pyrrole ring
c) It has a planer tetrapyrrole ring structure
d) It is water-soluble pigment
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6.  Name the pigment which is responsible for the yellow color of leaves in autumn and orange color of carrots?
a) Phycobilins
b) Chlorophylls
c) Carotenoids
d) Bacteriochlorophyll
c
7.  Accessory pigments absorb light at more wavelengths as compared to chlorophyll.
a) True
b) False
a
8.  Name the mechanism which prevents photo-oxidative damage in plants?
a) Photosynthesis
b) Photorespiration
c) Photoprotection
d) Phytoprotection
c
9. Name the photosynthetic pigment which is structurally similar to bile pigment bilirubin?
a) Chlorophyll
b) Carotene
c) Xanthophyll
d) Phycobilins
d
10. What is the location of photosynthetic pigment in an oxygenic photosynthetic organism?
a) Plasma membranes
b) Thylakoid membranes
c) Chromatophores
d) Chlorosome
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Life Sciences.
To practice all areas of Life Sciences, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Life Sciences Questions and Answers – Respiration – 2» Next - Life Sciences Questions and Answers – Photosynthesis – 2 
