1. What is the absorption spectrum?
a) The graph produced by absorption of light
b) The graph shows the photochemical reaction
c) The graph produced by absorption of oxygen
d) The graph shows oxygen evolution at a different wavelength
a
2. Photosynthetic reaction in an oxygenic photosynthetic organism is performed by pigment ______
a) Chlorophyll b
b) Chlorophyll a
c) Bacteriochlorophyll a
d) Bacteriochlorophyll c
b
3.  Name the filamentous fungi which are used in Engelmann’s experiment to show photosynthetic activity?
a) Rhizopus stolonifer
b) Penicillium
c) Cyanobacteria
d) Spirogyra
d
4.  Which of the following term defines the production of heat and light when excited molecule returns to its original state?
a) Fluorescence
b) Luminescence
c) Intersystem crossing
d) Phosphorescence
a
5. What is resonance energy transfer?
a) Transfer of electrons between the molecules
b) The transfer of energy as well as electrons
c) The transfer of electrons but not the energy
d) The transfer of energy but not the electron
d
6.  Which of the following is a Hill reagent?
a) Sugar
b) Chlorophylls
c) 2, 6- dichlorophenolindophenol
d) Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate
c
7.  How many photons are absorbed to produce one molecule of oxygen?
a) Two
b) Ten
c) Twelve
d) Eight
d
8.  Water is used as an electron donor in anoxygenic photosynthesis.
a) True
b) False
b
9. What is red drop phenomenon?
a) Falling of red color in the spectrum
b) Drop in quantum yield in the red region of the spectrum
c) Drop in quantum yield in the far-red region of the spectrum
d) Falling of far-red color in the spectrum
c
10. Which of the following correctly defines the yield of oxygen by the no. of photons absorbed?
a) Emerson enhancement effect
b) Quantum requirement
c) Photochemical reaction
d) Quantum Yield
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Life Sciences.
To practice all areas of Life Sciences for Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Life Sciences Questions and Answers – Photosynthesis – 1» Next - Life Sciences Questions and Answers – Carbohydrate Metabolism 
