1. Name the most active organs in the animal body which have the ability to synthesize triacylglycerol?
a) Spleen
b) Kidney
c) Liver and intestines
d) Adipose tissues
c
2. Triacylglycerol stored in the body as cytoplasmic lipid droplets.
a) True
b) False
a
3. Which of the following pathway is not used for triacylglycerol synthesis?
a) Glycerol 3-phosphate pathway
b) Glyoxylate pathway
c) Monoacylglycerol pathway
d) Kennedy pathway
b
4. Which of the following enzyme is not used in the synthesis of triacylglycerol?
a) Glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase
b) Acylglycerophophate acyltransferase
c) Phosphatidic acid phosphohydrolase
d) Glycogen phosphorylase
d
5. What is lipolysis?
a) Hydrolysis of triacylglycerol
b) Formation of lipids
c) Breakdown of ketone bodies
d) Formation of ketone bodies
a
Join [email protected]
6. Which of the following hormone is not used in the hydrolysis of triacylglycerol into the fatty acids in adipose tissues?
a) Epinephrine
b) Norepinephrine
c) Glucagon
d) Insulin
d
7. Mark the INCORRECT statement about the bile salt.
a) These are detergent substances
b) Stored in the gallbladder
c) It is hydrophobic in nature
d) It is made up of cholic acid
c
8. Triacylglycerol packed with the apolipoprotein and cholesterol in lipoprotein aggregate is called_________
a) Chylomicrons
b) VLDL
c) HDL
d) LDL
a
9. What is the outcome of the accumulation of acetyl-CoA in the mitochondria of the liver?
a) It is used as an energy source
b) It has broken down in to free fatty acids
c) It gets converted to oxaloacetate
d) It forms ketone bodies
d
10. Name the energy source of the brain during starvation?
a) Fat
b) Ketone bodies
c) Protein
d) Lipids
b
11. What is the biosynthetic source of all steroid hormones?
a) Cholesterol
b) Ketone bodies
c) Carbohydrate
d) Protein
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Life Sciences.
To practice all areas of Life Sciences, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Life Sciences Questions and Answers – Carbohydrate Metabolism» Next - Life Sciences Questions and Answers – Amino Acid Metabolism 
