1. Name the type of bacteria which uses Co2 as a sole source of carbon for growth.
a) Organotrophs
b) Heterotrophs
c) Autotrophs
d) Lithotrophs
c
2. Name those bacteria which obtain energy from chemical compounds?
a) Chemotrophs
b) Phototrophs
c) Organotrophs
d) Heterotrophs
a
3. Name the type of bacteria which uses reduced inorganic substances as an electron source?
a) Autotrophs
b) Chemotrophs
c) Organotrophs
d) Lithotrophs
d
4. Which of the following bacteria does not belong to photolithoautotrophy nutritional class?
a) Thiomargarita namibiensis
b) Purple sulfur bacteria
c) Blue-green bacteria
d) Green sulfur bacteria
a
5. Purple and green non-sulfur bacteria belongs to which of the following classes?
a) Photolithoautotrophy
b) Photoorganohetrotrophy
c) Chemolithoautotrophy
d) Chemoorganohetrotrophy
b
6. Nitrifying bacteria belongs to the nutritional class of_______
a) Chemoorganoautotrophy
b) Photolithoautrophy
c) Chemolithoautotrophy
d) Photoorganohetrotrophy
c
7. Which of the following species falls under the category of hydrogen-producing bacteria?
a) Thiobacillus thiooxidans
b) Nitrosomonas europaea
c) Nitrobacter winogradskyi
d) Alkaligenes eutrophus
d
8. The exact composition of complex media should be known.
a) True
b) False
b
9. Which of these is NOT a selective media?
a)  Blood agar
b) Eosin methylene blue agar
c) MacConkey agar
d) Mannitol salt agar
a
10. Name the protein which plays an important role in cell division?
a) Actin
b) FtsZ
c) HSP
d) HU
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Life Sciences.
To practice all areas of Life Sciences, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Life Sciences Questions and Answers – Bacterial Genome» Next - Life Sciences Questions and Answers – Classification System 
