1. Protein folding is a process in which a polypeptide folds in to ___________
a) 2-D structure
b) Globular form
c) 3-D structure
d) Linear form
c
2. Chaperones are the molecular protein which assists in proper protein folding or prevents them from aggregating.
a) True
b) False
a
3. Which of them contains all the information required to fold the polypeptide chain in its 3-D structure?
a) DNA sequences
b) RNA
c) Histone protein
d) Amino acid sequences
d
4. Which sentence is INCORRECT regarding molten globule state of protein?
a) Hydrophobic interaction among non-polar residues
b) The collapsed state
c) It is less compact
d) The denatured state
d
5. Which of the following name is given to molecular chaperones?
a) Allosteric protein
b) Heat shock protein
c) Denaturation protein
d) Ribonuclease
b
6. Which of these heat shock proteins prevent protein misfolding and maintain polypeptide chain in the unfolded state.
a) Hsp60
b) Hsp28
c) Hsp70
d) Hsp32
c
7. Among all the heat shock proteins which one is known as chaperonins?
a) Hsp70
b) Hsp32
c) Hsp60
d) Hsp30
c
8. Which one of the following reagent is also known a Sanger’s reagent?
a) 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (FDNB)
b) Phenylisothiocyanate
c) Cyanogen bromide
d) β-mercaptoethanol
a
9. Proteolytic enzyme trypsin cleaves protein at which of these specific sites?
a) Carboxyl side of Alanine, Glycine
b) Carboxyl side of Lysin or Arginine
c) Carboxyl side of aromatic amino acid
d) The amino side of aromatic amino acid
b
10. Mark the correct statement which depicts the correct statement of protein assay?
a) To determine the amount of protein
b) To characterize the function of the protein
c) To determine the structure of the protein
d) To determine the sequence of the protein
a
11. In a living organism, strong interactions between molecules are formed by a certain type of bond. Name that?
a) Hydrogen bonding
b) Covalent bond
c) Electrostatic interactions
d) Van der Waals forces
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Life Sciences.
To practice all areas of Life Sciences, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Life Sciences Questions and Answers – Fibrous and Globular Proteins» Next - Life Sciences Questions and Answers – Nucleic Acids 
