1. In Finite Element Method (FEM), which option is not correct with respect to discretization or mesh generation?
a) Density of elements depends on the degree of accuracy desired
b) Choice of element type may depend on the geometry of domain
c) For better accuracy correct formulae has to be applied
d) Some general rules govern mesh generation
c
2. In Finite Element Method (FEM), Mesh convergence is a measure of the number of _____ required in a model to ensure that the results of an analysis are not affected by changing the size of the _____
a) elements, mesh
b) nodes, mesh
c) nodes, element
d) degrees of freedom, element
a
3. In Finite Element Method (FEM), While domain discretization, at which of the following geometrical cases a node is not required?
a) Change in cross-section area only
b) Change in cross-section only
c) Change in cross section area as well as change in cross-section
d) No change
d
4. In Finite Element Method (FEM), In order to increase accuracy of a solution, while domain discretization, more than one node is to be placed at a point source.
a) True
b) False
b
5. For an inviscid flow of a fluid around a cylinder in an open channel as shown, the flow in the surroundings of the cylinder gets _____ and thus, the flow becomes ___
a) accelerated, non-uniform
b) decelerated, unsteady
c) accelerated, unsteady
d) compressed, non-uniform
a
6. For an inviscid flow of a fluid around the cylinder in an open channel as shown, the flow in the surroundings of the cylinder gets accelerated. At which points, A, B, C and D the mesh is created finer than the other points?
a) Both A and B
b) Either A or B
c) Both C and D
d) Only at D
c
7. In Finite Element Method (FEM), for discretization purpose in general, a refined mesh is employed in areas where changes in geometry, boundary conditions, loading, material properties or solution are present.
a) True
b) False
a
8. In Finite Element Method (FEM), for discretization purpose in general, which 2D element is an undesired one?
a) An equilateral triangle of side 5 units
b) A quadrilateral
c) A rhombus of side 10 units
d) A rectangle of dimensions 100×1
d
9. In Finite Element Method (FEM), for discretization purpose in general, which optionis not true for mesh refinement?
a) Previous meshes should be contained in the refined mesh
b) Any point in the body can be included within an arbitrarily small element at any stage of the mesh refinement
c) The same order of approximation for the solution may be preserved through all stages of the refinement process
d) Elements with very large aspect ratios are desired
d
10. In Finite Element Method (FEM), for discretization purpose in general, which of the following mesh cannot be a part of mesh refinement process?
a) A
b) B
c) C
d) D
c
11. To discretize a domain using rectangular elements, if the aspect ratio is to be limited to 10, which dimension (mm) of rectangular element gives finest mesh?
a) 1×0.5
b) 1.1×0.1
c) 0.11×0.01
d) 0.1×0.05
d
12. In Finite Element Method (FEM), choose the incorrect option regarding to the dimensions (mm) of elements in a finite element mesh?
a) Elements with very large aspect ratios are avoided
b) Elements with small angles are undesired
c) The coefficient matrices in finite element equations depend on dimensions of elements
d) Rectangular elements with high aspect ratio are preferred
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Finite Element Method.
To practice all exam questions on Finite Element Method,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Finite Element Method Questions and Answers – Boundary Value Problems – 2» Next - Finite Element Method Questions and Answers – Single Variable Problems – Applications – 1 
