1. For exothermic oxidation, which technology helps in better heat distribution in the reactor?
a) Fluidized bed
b) Spouted bed
c) Using air blowers in reactors
d) None of the mentioned
a
2. What are the requirements of Dorr-Oliver Fluosolids roaster?
a) Less excess air
b) Higher capacity
c) Short circuiting
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. Why do the roaster require less excess air?
a) For better roasting of sulphur ores
b) To maintain required temperature
c) To give off gas
d) All of the mentioned
c
4. What is the main problem occurring due to back mix flow of solids?
a) Short circuiting of solids
b) Distribution of heat is interrupted
c) Irregular roasting of sulphide ores
d) Irregular distribution of solids
a
5. When the bed is maintained at height of 1.2m to 1.5m, how much % of cinder is entrained?
a) 75 to 80
b) 10 to 15
c) 30 to 35
d) 55 to 60
a
6. In order to maintain temperature in the bed, what is introduced in the bed to maintain the temperature?
a) Water spray
b) Cooling coil
c) Coolant spray
d) All of the mentioned
d
7. What did BASF optimized in order to get particle growth and reduce roasting time?
a) High temperature
b) Low temperature
c) Faster gas velocity
d) Low gas velocity
a
8. How is copper or cobalt removed from sulphide ore?
a) Leaching
b) Filtration
c) Sieving
d) Froth floatation
a
9. At what temperature of the feed slug is maintained(degree Celsius) ?
a) 500 to 600
b) 880 to 930
c) 750 to 780
d) 1050 to 1150
b
10. How is the temperature of slug maintained in the reactor?
a) Water
b) Sulphuric acid
c) Steam
d) Ice vapour
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Fluidization Engineering.
To practice all areas of Fluidization Engineering for Campus Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Fluidization Engineering Questions and Answers – Cement Clinker» Next - Fluidization Engineering Questions and Answers – Reduction of Iron Oxides 
