1. What is the maximum range of inclination, in the Fuller Huron air slide conveyor?
a) 1-3 degrees
b) 3-6 degrees
c) 6-9 degrees
d) 9-12 degrees
b
2. What is the application of the process mentioned in below fig?
a) Transportation
b) Mixing
c) Reaction
d) Segregation
a
3. In below fig, how is the mixing of powdered particles taking place?
a) Water
b) Air
c) Steam
d) None of the mentioned
b
4. From above fig, if the inlet and outlet of solids are interchanged how would it impact the process?
a) No effect on the process
b) Practically not possible
c) Will require pumps
d) Leads to entrainment of solids by increasing air flow rate
d
5. From above fig, if the solids inlet is interchanged with air inlet how would it impact the process?
a) Increases the load on the pumps
b) Difficulty for solids outlet
c) No proper mixing
d) All of the mentioned
d
6. What is the best way for reducing load on cyclone separators in the fluidized mixer for powdery material?
a) Using multiple cyclones
b) Increasing the gas flow rate
c) Increasing the solids mass rate
d) None of the mentioned
a
7. What is the latest technology being used for transportation of solid particles in cement industries?
a) Pneumatic fluidized transportation
b) Conveyor belts
c) Buckets
d) Trucks
a
8. Among the following processes which provides the most economic means in cement industry?
a) Fluidization process
b) Mixing process with agitator
c) Batch Reactor
d) All of the mentioned
a
9. Transportation through fluidization using more power than any other process, true or false?
a) True
b) False
b
10. What happens if the inclination is more than 3-6 degrees in the fuller Huron conveyor?
a) Difficulty in laying transportation lines
b) Faster transportation
c) Slows down the transportation
d) Has no effect
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Fluidization Engineering.
To practice all areas of Fluidization Engineering for Freshers, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Fluidization Engineering Questions and Answers – Types of Fluidization Operations» Next - Fluidization Engineering Questions and Answers – Heat Exchanger 
