1. In the packed bed, at relatively low flow rates pressure drop is approximately proportional to gas velocity, true or false?
a) True
b) False
a
2. Before the pressure drop stabilizes after the bed gets fluidized, what is the position of pressure drop before reaching minimum fluidization?
a) Above the constant
b) Below the constant
c) Equal
d) Hard to tell
a
3. How the gas behave across the fluidized bed, when the velocity is more than minimum fluidization?
a) Bubbles formation
b) Slugs formation
c) Smooth flow
d) None of the mentioned
a
4. How the liquid behave across the fluidized bed, when the velocity is more than minimum fluidization?
a) Bubbles formation
b) Slugs formation
c) No bubbles
d) None of the mentioned
c
5. What happens if we continuously increase the velocity after attaining the constant pressure drop?
a) Remains constant
b) Pressure drop decreases to zero
c) Slight reduction in pressure drop
d) Slight increase in pressure drop
b
Join [email protected]
6. When the velocity of fluid is infinity, the pressure drop goes to zero, give example of its physical application?
a) Pneumatic conveyors
b) Dilution of solids
c) Transportation
d) All of the mentioned
d
7. During the increase of velocity of fluid in the bed, how does the graph of pressure drop follows?
a) Linear
b) Exponential
c) Non-linear
d) None of the mentioned
a
8. When does the initiation of entrainment start in the fluidized bed?
a) Before the pressure drop goes to zero
b) Point when pressure drop becomes constant
c) Start of the fluidization process
d) None of the mentioned
a
9. What is one of the reason for poor fluidization beds in terms of pressure drop?
a) Slugging
b) Low velocity
c) Light particles
d) All of the mentioned
a
10. What does the minimum fluidization velocity in the bed depends on?
a) Size distribution of solids
b) Pumping power
c) Diameter of bed
d) All of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Fluidization Engineering.
To practice  all areas of Fluidization Engineering for online Quizzes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Fluidization Engineering Questions and Answers – Minimum Fluidizing Velocity» Next - Fluidization Engineering Questions and Answers – Terminal Velocity of Particles 
