1. What is the time required for complete coating to take place in the fluidized bed?
a) 2-3 sec
b) 5-10 sec
c) 1 sec
d) 20 sec
a
2. Which variety of plastic powders can be used for metal ware coating?
a) Polyvinyl
b) Polypropylene
c) Polyvinyl Chloride
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. For coating using plastic in fluidized bed, thermoplastic powders are always used, true or false?
a) True
b) False
a
4. What will happen if the metal ware is kept for long time for coating of polymer in the fluidized bed?
a) Better coating
b) Irregular thickness
c) Time is independent of time
d) None of the mentioned
b
5. What is the best method for application of plastic coating on the metal coating?
a) Fluidized bed
b) Spray
c) Electrostatic painting
d) Brush
a
6. What should be the temperature of the metal ware for best coating to occur?
a) Little more than the melting point of the polymer
b) Same as melting point temperature of the polymer
c) Very high temperature
d) None of the mentioned
a
7. According to Gaynor, how is the thickness of the film varies with time?
a) Exponentially
b) Linearly
c) Independent
d) Sinusoidally
a
8. Since the rate of deposition is proportional to the rate of heat transfer, thickness varies exponentially with film, true of false?
a) True
b) False
a
9. In below fig, if the coolants are not present in the fluidized bed, how will it effect the film formation?
a) Molten plastic will drip down from the metal ware
b) No effect on the film formation
c) Increases the cooling the period
d) None of the mentioned
a
10. If the flow rate of coolants is increased in the fluidized bed, how will it effect the film formation?
a) Time duration of film formation will decreased
b) No effect
c) Time duration for film formation increases
d) None of the mentioned
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Fluidization Engineering.
To practice all areas of Fluidization Engineering for Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Fluidization Engineering Questions and Answers – Heat Exchanger» Next - Fluidization Engineering Questions and Answers – Drying and Sizing 
