1. In fluid catalytic cracking(FCC) process, how does the heavy hydrocarbon crack into lower molecular compounds?
a) On contact with catalyst
b) By heating at high temperature
c) By pyrolysis process
d) None of the mentioned
a
2. In fluid catalytic cracking process, cracking of heavy hydrocarbons into lower hydrocarbons, is an endothermic process, true of false?
a) True
b) False
a
3. After the process, the catalyst gets deactivated, how it can ge regenerated?
a) Burning off the carbon in air
b) Replacing the catalyst
c) Using brine solution
d) Using Sulphuric acid
a
4. What are the two sections of the fluid catalytic cracking process?
a) Reactor and Regenerator
b) Plug flow reactor and tubular reactor
c) Batch reactor and tubular reactor
d) Batch reactor and heat exchanger
a
5. How is the circulation regulated between the reactor and regenerator in FCC?
a) Plug valves
b) Slide valves
c) Gate valves
d) Piston valves
a
6. How are the no. of holes decided on the distributor, in the fluid catalytic cracking unit?
a) Pressure drop
b) Height of bed
c) Superficial velocity of gas
d) None of the mentioned
a
7. How can we prevent the flat distributor to buckle off under normal stresses, in FCC?
a) Concave plates
b) Convex plates
c) Both concave and convex plates
d) None of the mentioned
c
8. What are problems encountered in the fluid catalytic cracking unit?
a) Violent bubbling action
b) Gas by-passing
c) More load on gas cleaning equipments
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. How can we study and control the size distribution factors which are responsible for improved circulations in FCC?
a) Attrition kinetics and cyclone effectiveness
b) Flow patterns of bubbles
c) Kinetics of catalyst in the regenerator
d) None of the mentioned
a
10. How did Shell oil company managed to reduce serious gas bypassing in FCC unit?
a) Using plug flow and fluidized bed
b) Reactor and Regenerator
c) Plug flow reactor and tubular reactor
d) Batch reactor and fluidized bed
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Fluidization Engineering.
To practice all areas of Fluidization Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Fluidization Engineering Questions and Answers – Industrial Applications of Fluidized Bed» Next - Fluidization Engineering Questions and Answers – Fluid Catalytic Reforming 
