1. What is the most important factor to be considered for designing a fluidized bed reactor?
a) Diameter of reactor
b) Height of reactor
c) Size distribution of solids
d) Gas flow rate
c
2. What is the best combination of fluidized bed for fluid catalytic cracking?
a) Spouted and teeter bed
b) Teeter and one pass for solids bed
c) Batch type and spouted bed
d) Batch type and circulation bed
d
3. What is the maximum range of superficial gas velocity when the TDH of the bed is 0.25m to prevent eluitrition in a circular type fluidized bed reactor?
a) 0.1-5 m/sec
b) 1.5-12 m/sec
c) 12-24 m/sec
d) 5-5.5 m/sec
a
4. What is the advantage of fluidized bed over spouted bed and teeter bed in the drying process?
a) Presence of distributor
b) Reactor sizes
c) Presence of cyclone separators
d) None of the mentioned
a
5. In case of naphtha cracking, use of batch type is better than circulation type fluidized bed?
a) True
b) False
b
6) There is a missing part in the fluidized bed construction shown in figure.1, state the required equipment and if any replacement for that part and possible explanation?
a) Cyclone separators and if possible filter bags
b) Diagram is not missing any part
c) Pressure gauge and if possible vacuum pump
d) Thermostat only
a
7. In a fluidized bed reactor, for a specific gas flow rate, any kind of Geldart type particles can be used. True of False?
a) True
b) False
b
8. In pneumatic transport, explain the importance of the classification of solids before its application has been started?
a) Any kind of solids range can be transported
b) Only Geldart ‘A’ and ‘B’ particles can be transported
c) Only Geldart ‘C’ and ‘D’ particles can be transported
d) Only Geldart ‘A’ and ‘D’ particles can be transported
b
9. What is the mesh range of particles required in the fluidized bed for best efficiency?
a) 1-10 mesh
b) 5-50 mesh
c) 50-100 mesh
d) 20-200 mesh
d
10. In a fluidized bed reactor, what is the best way to achieve maximum heat and mass transfer rates?
a) Using small particles
b) Using large particles
c) Simply dumping the particle and passing gas will do the job
d) Increasing the gas flow rates
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Fluidization Engineering.
To practice all areas of Fluidization Engineering Problems, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
» Next - Fluidization Engineering Questions and Answers – Transportation and Mixing of Fine Powder 
