1. Winker gas generator, was the first commercial application of the fluidized bed for chemical operations, true or false?
a) True
b) False
a
2. What is the mesh size of coal used in winker gas generator?
a) <8
b) >8
c) <16
d) >16
a
3. What is the gas used for fluidizing the coal feed?
a) Steam
b) Air
c) Oxygen
d) All of the mentioned
d
4. After having a hot environment in the chamber, what is released?
a) Carbon dioxide
b) Volatile matter
c) Oxygen
d) Water vapour
b
5. Where is the volatile matter used as raw gas?
a) Chemical synthesis
b) Cracking
c) Pyrolysis
d) All of the mentioned
a
6. Why does winker gas generator does not produce enough amount of synthetic gas?
a) Temperature is kept below 1000 Celsius
b) Temperature is kept above 1000 Celsius
c) Pressure is kept at 1 atm
d) None of the mentioned
a
7. When temperature is kept below 1000 Celsius, what happens in the process?
a) Leads to insufficient cracking of methane
b) Leads to sufficient cracking of methane
c) Leads to sufficient cracking of ethane
d) Leads to insufficient cracking of ethane
a
8. What is done in order to prevent insufficient cracking of methane?
a) Secondary oxygen
b) Secondary nitrogen
c) Secondary carbon dioxide
d) All of the mentioned
a
9. What happens when we inject secondary oxygen for combustion?
a) Raises temperature above 1000 Celsius
b) Maintains temperature at 1000 Celsius
c) Reduces further below 1000 Celsius
d) None of the mentioned
a
10. What is another problem apart from methane cracking in winker gas generator?
a) Carbon loss
b) Corrosion
c) Insufficient air supply
d) All of the mentioned
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Fluidization Engineering.
To practice all areas of Fluidization Engineering Assessment Questions, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Fluidization Engineering Questions and Answers – Carbonization of Oil Shale and Coal» Next - Fluidization Engineering Questions and Answers – Activation of Charcoal 
