1. When a salt solution is injected into a bed of dry particles fluidized by hot gas, the particles grow by?
a) Salt build-up
b) Sticking to each other
c) By collisions
d) None of the mentioned
a
2. The particle growth proceeds by successive wetting with liquid feed followed by solidification through drying, true or false?
a) True
b) False
a
3. How can the product size and size distribution are controlled in the bed of dry particles fluidized by hot gas?
a) By size of seed particles
b) By adjusting the liquid-to-solid feed ratio
c) The ratio of sprayed volume to volume of bed
d) All of the mentioned
d
4. According to Ciborowski, after performing experiments on naphthalene, what was the decrease in efficiency percent when the gas velocity was increased?
a) 100% to 80-90%
b) 100% to 70-60%
c) 100% to 40-50%
d) None of the mentioned
a
5. According to Ciborowski, after performing experiments on naphthalene, when there is decrease in efficiency of condensation?
a) Increase in gas velocity
b) Increase in driving force
c) Increase in concentration
d) All of the mentioned
d
6. A continuous, fluid char adsorption process for separation and recovery of gaseous components was developed by?
a) Esso laboratories
b) Jyothi labs
c) Hetero drugs
d) Mylan laboratories
a
7. How many bubble caps were fabricated inside the  fluid char adsorption process for separation and recovery of gaseous components?
a) 20
b) 10
c) 5
d) 50
a
8. What was the major problem faced by the process developed by Esso laboratories which prevented to use commercially?
a) Erosion during transportation and fluidization
b) Process was too costly
c) Equipment was very difficult to handle manually
d) None of the mentioned
a
9. What is the percentage of CS2 adsorbed from Rowson recovery plant?
a) 90-95%
b) 10-15%
c) 50-75%
d) 100%
a
10. How much was the fan HP required for five-stage fluidized absorber developed by Rowson?
a) 1000 hp
b) 500 hp
c) 250 hp
d) 100 hp
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Fluidization Engineering.
To practice all areas of Fluidization Engineering for Experienced people, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Fluidization Engineering Questions and Answers – Drying and Sizing» Next - Fluidization Engineering Questions and Answers – Synthesis Reactions – 1 
