1. First commercial fluidized bed for gasification of powdered coal which was awarded patent in 1922, was developed by?
a) Fritz Winker
b) Colburn Jake
c) Dolph Jagger
d) Cameron John
a
2. In below fig, how is the presence of another inlet of steam and air in the middle of the reactor useful?
a) It results in proper distribution of particles
b) Resultant temperature leads to decomposition of methane
c) It has not much effect and can be excluded
d) For increasing the speed of solids exit
b
3. Based on the current technology, do you consider Winkler gas producer efficient and is still better to use?
a) Yes, it can still be used
b) Depending on the process we should decide its efficiency
c) No, because of its high consumption of oxygen
d) No, because it is big in size.
c
4. Which is the best suitable equipment to be introduced in the thermofor catalytic cracking?
a) Bucket elevator
b) Gas lift
c) Bucket and Lift elevator
d) Pneumatic conveying system
d
5. In below fig, which part of the process should be removed for getting better efficiency of the process?
a) Cooler for spent catalyst
b) Electrostatic precipitation
c) No need of any removal
d) Whole process needs to be modified
c
6. What is the best way to prevent load on the dust collectors in the fluidized bed reactor?
a) Up flow beds
b) Down flow beds
c) Side flow beds
d) None of the mentioned
b
7. Which bed shown below, can provide with remarkable temperature uniformity for highly exothermic and temperature sensitive reactions?
a) Fluidized bed reactor
b) Spouted bed
c) Teeter bed
d) Batch reactor
a
8. Mention few processes where the solids circulation principle, developed for the FCC process has been used?
a) In fluid hydro-forming for re-forming naphtha vapour
b) Fluid coking for the treatment of heavy oil
c) Sand cracking for thermal cracking
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. In drying processes, how important is the inclusion of fluidized bed?
a) Most efficient drying
b) Somewhat better than spouted bed and less than teeter bed
c) Drying is best all the beds
d) Least efficient drying
a
10. Efficiency in fluidized bed for any process is the highest when compared with any other beds, true or false?
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Fluidization Engineering.
To practice all areas of Fluidization Engineering for Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Fluidization Engineering Questions and Answers – Synthesis Reactions-2» Next - Fluidization Engineering Questions and Answers – Fluid Catalytic Cracking 
