1. Why are the fluidized bed extensively used for heat exchangers, in both physical and chemical processes?
a) Ability to rapidly transport heat
b) Maintain uniform temperature
c) Utilization of entire area for heat distribution
d) All of the mentioned
d
Questions (2-4) based on below fig;
2. What are the solids/liquid that is flowing from (1) ?
a) Hot alumina
b) Hot air
c) Steam
d) Sand particles
a
3. From above fig, what is the maximum number turns of pipes inside the fluidized cooler?
a) 5-10 turns
b) 10-15 turns
c) 15-20 turns
d) Depending on the area provided
d
4. From above fig, if the numbers represented as (1) and (2) are interchanged, i.e. the inlet components are reversed, will it have any effect on the process?
a) No effect
b) Slows down the productivity
c) Helps in increasing the cooling of hot alumina
d) Incomplete cooling
b
5. In order to efficiently recover heat from exit gases from a rotary kiln for cement clinker, how should be the solids present?
a) Agglomerated and palletized
b) Made into fine dust of 200 mesh
c) Should be of 10-15 microns
d) It doesn’t matter
a
6. How useful is the fluidized bed for quenching or freezing hot reacting mixtures?
a) Intermediates
b) Fast cooling
C) Crystallization
d) Slow heat transfer
a
7. Fig.8, Counter current heat exchanger developed by Russian engineers, mention the height of the bed?
a) 8m
b) 18m
c) 25m
d) 5m
a
8. What is the maximum pallets size required before it is to be used in fig.8?
a) 3-4mm
b) 1-2mm
c) 8-10mm
d) 5-8mm
a
9. In counter current heat exchanger, the intermediate temperature is 800-900 degrees, true or false?
a) True
b) False
a
10. Is it possible for fluidized heat exchangers to transfer heat for heat sensitive processes?
a) Yes, its possible
b) No, its difficult
c) Yes, its difficult
d) No, its possible
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Fluidization Engineering.
To practice all areas of Fluidization Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Fluidization Engineering Questions and Answers – Transportation and Mixing of Fine Powder» Next - Fluidization Engineering Questions and Answers – Coating on Plastic Materials on Metal Surfaces 
