1. Which of the following indicate leakages in a condenser?
a) The concentration of sodium in steam and condensate are very high
b) The concentration of sodium in steam and condensate are very low
c) The concentration of sodium in steam and condensate are equal
d) The concentration of sodium in steam and condensate are not equal
d
2. Which of the following are added for pH adjustment in sodium analyser?
a) Acidic solution
b) Basic solution
c) Hydrazine
d) Ammonia buffer
d
3. Normally, electrodes measure which of the following parameters?
a) Activity
b) Activity co-efficient
c) Blank constant
d) Ionic co-efficient
a
4. Which of the following represent the concentration of a solution?
a) Only free ions
b) Only bound ions
c) Free ions and bound ions
d) Either free ions or bound ions
c
5. Sodium selective electrode provides a good response in measurement when the pH is above which of the following values?
a) 2
b) 3
c) 5
d) 10
d
6. Which of the following are used to free bound ions or liberate bound ions?
a) Colouring agents
b) Ammonia Buffer
c) Reagents
d) Iodine solution
c
7. In which part of the apparatus is the reference and ion selective electrodes placed?
a) Head tank
b) Flow cell
c) Reservoir
d) Solenoid valve
b
8. The output of the electrode in sodium analyser is proportional to which of the following parameters?
a) Activity
b) Concentration
c) Negative logarithm of sodium ion concentration
d) Logarithm of sodium ion concentration
d
9. Cleaning process gives accuracy and long life.
a) True
b) False
a
10. Presence of sodium sulphate in water causes corrosion in boilers.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Dissolved Oxygen Analyser» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Silica Analyser 
