1. Tandem mass spectroscopy combines which of the following devices?
a) Mass spectrometer and gas-solid chromatograph
b) Mass spectrometer and gas-liquid chromatograph
c) Mass spectrometer and gas chromatograph
d) Mass spectrometer and mass spectrometer
d
2. In tandem spectroscopy, the first stage sepatation device is a mass spectrometer.
a) True
b) False
a
3. Which of the following is used to separate a single mass that is characteristic of a given analyte in a mixture?
a) First mass spectrometer
b) Second mass spectrometer
c) Filter
d) Precursor
a
4. The mass-selected ions are activated in which of the following ways that cause them to fall apart to produce product ions?
a) Collisional activation
b) Evaporational activation
c) Inert gas activation
d) Thermal activation
a
5. The final MS/MS spectrum consists only of product ions from the selected precursor.
a) True
b) False
a
6. In reverse-geometry mass spectrometer which of the following precedes the electric sector?
a) Nebulizer
b) Orifice
c) Magnetic sector
d) Mass spectrometer
c
7. A magnetic sector alone can be used as a mass spectrometer, with roughly _____ resolution.
a) Low
b) High
c) Unit
d) Infinite
c
8. What does the acronym ‘MIKES’ stand for?
a) Mass-analysed ion kinetic energy spectrometer
b) Mass-based induced kinetic energy spectrometer
c) Mass invasive kinetic electric spectrometer
d) Mass-analyser in a kinetic energy-type spectrometer
a
9. In MIKES experiments which of the following are measured?
a) Product ions
b) Product ion kinetic energies
c) Product ions mass to charge ratio
d) Product ions masses
b
10. All ions with the same number of charges will have __________
a) Same kinetic energy
b) Different kinetic energies
c) Same mass
d) Different mass
a
11. A tandem mass spectrometer has which of the following analysers?
a) Time of flight mass analyser
b) Magnetic deflection analyser
c) Radiofrequency analyser
d) Quadrupole analyser
a
12. Which of the following filters are used in tandem spectrometer?
a) Quadrupole mass filter
b) Low energy filter
c) High energy filter
d) Time of flight mass filter
a
13. B/E scan is which of the following scans?
a) Product ion scan
b) Precursor ion scan
c) Mass scan
d) Charge scan
a
14. Which of the following is located in the region between two analysers?
a) Nebuliser
b) Collision cell
c) Filter
d) Vacuum chamber
b
15. Given below is the diagram of the drift tube of a tandem quadrupole/time of flight instrument. Identify the unmarked component.
a) Nebuliser
b) Filter
c) Chopper
d) Acceleration lens
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation for Campus Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Liquid Chromatograph- Mass Spectrometer» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Surface Spectroscopic Techniques 
