1. Which of the following does not occur in Hartman and Braun oxygen analyzer based on the magnetic wind?
a) Oxygen is attracted to the magnetic field
b) Oxygen becomes less paramagnetic due to rise in temperature
c) Resistance change in a resistance connected to the Wheatstone bridge occur
d) Wheatstone Bridge becomes balanced due to temperature change
d
2. Which of the following is not a cause of the error that could occur in Hartman and Braun oxygen analyzer based on the magnetic wind?
a) The filament temperature could be affected by changes in thermal conductivity of the carrier gas
b) Hydrocarbons in sample stream may react on the heated filaments
c) Gravitation chimney flow effect lead to errors when cross tube is horizontal
d) Combustible gases may react on the heated filaments
c
3. Hydrocarbons need to be removed from the sample gas to avoid errors in Hartman and Braun oxygen analyzer.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Magnetic wind analyzers are also known as which of the following?
a) Thermo-magnetic analyzers
b) Electro-magnetic analyzers
c) Thermo-analytical analyzers
d) Hot wire analyzers
a
5. In OXYMAT-M oxygen analyser which of the following is usually used as reference gas?
a) Hydrogen
b) Nitrogen
c) Helium
d) Ambient air
d
6. Which of the following is used in magnetic wind instruments to determine the amount of oxygen?
a) Change in resistance
b) Change in capacitance
c) Change in inductance
d) Change in concentration
a
7. Which of the following concepts are not used in magnetic wind instruments?
a) Change in resistance due to cooling by magnetic wind
b) Displacement of membrane by magnetised oxygen
c) Difference in pressure difference between two gases having varying concentration of oxygen
d) By measuring temperature using thermometer
d
8. How are the hydrocarbons in the samples removed in magnetic wind instruments?
a) By using a cold trap
b) By using a filter
c) By using a semipermeable membrane
d) By using magnetic effect
a
9. Which of the following bridges are used in magnetic wind instruments?
a) Wheatstone bridge
b) Kelvin’s bridge
c) Anderson’s bridge
d) Schering’s bridge
a
10. The extremely high inertia of the thin membrane in the oxygen sensor allows it to rapidly attain equilibrium.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Paramagnetic Oxygen Analyser» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Electrochemical Methods for Oxygen Analysis 
