1. Which of the following transducers must be used for dissolved oxygen analyser?
a) Potentiometric
b) Polarographic
c) Ion-selective electrode
d) Optical transducer
b
2. How does solubility of oxygen in water change with respect to temperature?
a) It decreases with increase in temperature
b) It increases with increase in temperature
c) It decreases with decrease in temperature
d) It does not depend on temperature
a
3. The water to be analysed flows into the condenser through which of the following components?
a) Filter
b) Semi-permeable membrane
c) Throttling device
d) Platinum filament
c
4. Which of the following is the function of the throttling device?
a) Filtering
b) Maintains pH of a water
c) Purifies water
d) Maintains constant flow rate
d
5. Which of the following section plays a major role in maintaining the accuracy of the dissolved oxygen analyser?
a) Analysing section
b) Inlet section
c) Transmitting section
d) Condensing section
c
6. Which of the following bridges are used in dissolved oxygen analyser?
a) Kelvin’s bridge
b) Wheatstone bridge
c) Schering’s bridge
d) Anderson’s bridge
b
7. In dissolved oxygen analyser, the electrometer consists of which of the following solutions?
a) Calcium hydroxide solution
b) Magnesium hydroxide solution
c) Potassium hydroxide solution
d) Calcium oxide solution
c
8. The dissolved oxygen analyser is based on which of the following meters?
a) Amperometer
b) Katharometer
c) pH meter
d) Voltmeter
b
9. Oxygen content can be controlled by adding which of the following materials with water?
a) Acidic solution
b) Basic solution
c) Iodine
d) Hydrazine
d
10. In dissolved oxygen analyser, normally more than one condenser is used.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation Assessment Questions, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers..
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Biosensors» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Sodium Analyser 
