1. Which of the following components of the X-ray fluorescent spectrometer induces fluorescent radiation?
a) Excitation source
b) Energy analyser
c) X-ray spectrometer
d) Detection System
a
2. Why is a mono-energetic radiation source required in X-ray fluorescent spectrometer?
a) To provide good sensitivity
b) To provide high accuracy
c) To provide a proper range
d) To reduce unwanted background
d
3. Which of the following does not make the X-ray tube nearly monochromatic?
a) Transmission-anode X-ray tube
b) Secondary fluorescence target
c) Slit
d) Filters
c
4. Which of the following components make use of a thin metal foil to isolate a nearly mono-energetic excitation beam?
a) Transmission-anode X-ray tube
b) Secondary fluorescence target
c) Slit
d) Filters
d
5. Energy dispersive system uses which of the following detectors?
a) Optical detector
b) Semiconductor detector
c) Thermistor
d) Bolometer
b
6. In Energy dispersive system, the energy level and the number of pulses is related to which of the following?
a) Amount of sample, element involved
b) Element involved, concentration of the element
c) Concentration of the element, element involved
d) Number of atoms, amount of sample
b
7. The analysis of X-ray beam by diffraction is similar to spectrum analysis carried out with a diffraction grating.
a) True
b) False
a
8. The crystal used as X-ray grating has _______ dimensional lattice arrays.
a) One
b) Two
c) Three
d) Four
c
9. Which of the following can be done to avoid loss of intensities of X-rays due to the absorption of long wavelength X-rays?
a) Apparatus must be contained in a chamber
b) Air in the chamber must be replaced by helium
c) Inert gas atmosphere must be provided
d) Proper slits must be used
b
10. In curved crystal arrangement, angular velocity of the crystal is twice that of the detector.
a) True
b) False
b
11. Which of the following is the disadvantage of silicon semiconductor detector?
a) Low stable
b) Can be operated only at low temperatures
c) Have low count-rate
d) Low resolution
b
12. Given below is the diagram of energy dispersive system. Identify the unmarked component.
a) Lens
b) Specimen
c) Sample holder
d) Energy analyser
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – X-Ray Fluorescence Spectrometry – Introduction» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Total Reflection X-Ray Fluorescence Spectrometer 
