1. Which of the following is not true about High pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC)?
a) It requires high pressure for the separation of the specious
b) There is no need to vaporise the samples
c) It is performed in columns
d) It has high sensitivity
b
2. High pressure liquid chromatography can be performed only in columns.
a) True
b) False
a
3. Which of the following is not an advantage of Syringe type pumps used in High pressure liquid chromatography?
a) Independent of viscosity
b) Pulse-less flow
c) High pressure capability
d) Unlimited solvent capacity
d
4. Which of the following is not true about solvent programming which is done in high performance liquid chromatography?
a) It provides unequal bandwidths
b) It provides fast overall separation
c) It provides maximum resolution
d) It provides maximum sensitivity
a
5. Which of the following pulse damper takes up some amount of the pulsation energy which is released to provide smooth pressure without pulsations?
a) Flexible bellows or compressible gas passed through tee columns
b) Flexible inert diaphragm
c) Electronic pulse damper
d) Electrical pulse damper
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Which of the following is not a characteristic of the syringe pump used in high pressure liquid chromatography?
a) Pressure capability is high
b) Maintenance is frequent
c) Limited reservoir capability
d) Slight change of flow rate when extremely high pressure compresses the solvent
b
7. Syringe pumps used in High pressure liquid chromatography are most suitable for which of the following columns?
a) Capillary columns
b) Guard columns
c) Short-fast columns
d) Small bore columns
d
8. Gravity feed method for solvent delivery is not used with narrow bore columns packed with fine mesh particles.
a) True
b) False
a
9. Which of the following cannot be done to reduce ripple in High pressure liquid chromatography?
a) Using bellows
b) Using restrictors
c) Using long nylon tube between pump and column
d) Avoiding the use of the solvent pump
d
10. Which of the following is not true about Hydraulic capacitance flow control system used in HPLC?
a) It can be used only for liquids with low viscosity
b) It is irrespective of solvent compressibility
c) It maintains a constant flow
d) It smoothens high pressure pump pulsations
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Liquid Chromatography» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Detection System of Liquid Chromatography 
