1. Which of the following cannot be used as secondary reference electrode?
a) Calomel electrode
b) Silver-silver chloride electrode
c) Mercury-mercury sulphate electrode
d) Glass electrode
d
2. Which of the following is known as calomel?
a) Silver chloride
b) Mercury chloride
c) Potassium chloride
d) Mercury sulphate
b
3. The calomel electrodes are classified based on which of the following?
a) Materials used in the electrode
b) Amount of mercury present
c) Concentration of Kcl
d) Purity of mercury
c
4. Which of the following calomel electrodes are used for accurate work?
a) Saturated calomel electrode
b) Electrode with 0.1M Kcl
c) Electrode with 1M Kcl
d) Electrode with 2M Kcl
b
5. Calomel electrode can behave as which of the following components?
a) Anode only
b) Cathode only
c) Anode or cathode
d) Salt bridge
c
6. When the calomel electrode acts as the cathode which of the following does not occur?
a) Mercury ions are discharged at the electrode
b) More calomel passes into the solution
c) There is a decrease in the concentration of chloride ions
d) There is an increase in the concentration of chloride ions
d
7. Which of the following is not the characteristics of a calomel electrode?
a) The potential of electrode is not temperature dependent
b) Preparation of electrode is easy
c) Value of potential or emf is higher for lower concentration of Kcl
d) Value of potential decreases with increasing concentration of Kcl
a
8. Which of the following is not the characteristics of silver/silver chloride electrode?
a) These electrodes have good electrical and chemical stability
b) It can be used in temperatures greater than 600oC
c) It can be used in places or solutions that have strong reducing agents
d) It should not be used in solutions that contain proteins, sulphide or bromide
c
9. While using reference electrodes, the internal liquid level should always be kept above that of the sample solution.
a) True
b) False
a
10. Which of the following salt bridge solutions must be used for silver/silver chloride electrode?
a) Saturated KCl
b) Saturated K2SO4
c) Saturated LiCl
d) Saturated KNO3
a
11. LiCl salt bridge is more suitable in organic solvents than KCl.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Hydrogen and Glass Electrodes» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Combination Electrode 
