1. In Saltzman method, which of the following are formed when air containing NO2 is passed in an absorbing solution consisting of the sulphanilic acid and diamine dissolved in the acetic acid medium?
a) Blue colour dye complex
b) Green colour dye complex
c) Pink colour dye complex
d) Orange colour dye complex
c
2. NO can be analysed by converting it into NO2 and passing it through potassium permanganate. Which of the following is the main disadvantage of this method?
a) Less accuracy
b) Dye formed is unstable
c) Dye formed is colourless
d) Quantity of dye is low
b
3. In Jacob-Hochheiser method, NO2 is passed through a dilute solution of sodium hydroxide forming the nitrite ion. The nitrite ion is reacted with sulphanilamide and ethylene diamine in which of the following to form the highly coloured azo dye?
a) Sulphuric acid
b) Hydrochloric acid
c) Nitric acid
d) Phosphoric acid
d
4. Which of the following methods results in the formation of yellow coloured compound?
a) Griess-Saltzman method
b) Phenoldisul phonoic acid method
c) Chemiluminescence method
d) West-Gaeke method
b
5. Which of the following is the most common application of Chemiluminescence method used for the analysis of Nitrogen oxides?
a) In medical applications
b) In automotive exhaust gases
c) In manufacturing processes
d) In chemical industries
b
6. Which of the following is the wavelength at which CO laser operates?
a) 1.005 µm
b) 5.307 µm
c) 4.952 µm
d) 6.179 µm
b
7. CO laser is operated at liquid nitrogen temperature.
a) True
b) False
a
8. The chemiluminescence reactor with ozonator is specific to which of the following compounds?
a) N2
b) NO
c) NO2
d) N2O
b
9. In which of the following ways can chemiluminescence occur in compounds of nitrogen?
a) When NO2 returns to ground state from excited state
b) When NO reacts with oxygen
c) When NO reacts with ozone
d) When NO2 is reduced to NO
a
10. West-Gaeke colorimetric method is used to analyse oxides of nitrogen.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Sulphur Di-oxide Monitoring» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Estimation of Carbon Monoxide 
