1. Which of the following is not an advantage of electrochemical cells used for analysis of H2S?
a) Portable battery operated instrument
b) Pocket sized instrument
c) No pumps are needed
d) No interference from background gases
d
2. Which of the following methods are mainly used in combustible gas detection equipment?
a) Lead acetate tape staining method
b) Solid state sensor
c) Gold film sensor
d) Electrochemical cells
b
3. Which of the following is not an advantage of solid state sensor used for analysis of H2S?
a) No sampling system
b) It can be used in conditions involving vibration
c) It can be used in corrosive atmosphere
d) No interference from background gases
d
4. Which is the compound that forms the stain in Lead Acetate Tape Staining method used for the analysis of Hydrogen Sulphide and what is the colour of the stain?
a) Lead Sulphide, red colour
b) Lead Sulphide, brown colour
c) Hydrogen acetate, white colour
d) Hydrogen acetate, green colour
b
5. Which of the following methods is not used for detection of hydrogen sulphide?
a) Lead acetate tape staining method
b) Solid state sensor
c) Chemiluminescence method
d) Electrochemical cells
c
6. In solid state sensor, when heated to 150o to 300o which of the following occurs?
a) Resistance decreases with increase in H2S concentration
b) Resistance increases with H2S concentration
c) No change in resistance occurs
d) Sensor does not respond in this temperature range
a
7. In the gold film sensor, the change in resistance is proportional to the concentration of H2S.
a) True
b) False
a
8. Which of the following occurs in Electrochemical cells used for the detection of hydrogen sulphide?
a) Change in resistance
b) Redox reaction
c) Oxidation-reduction reaction
d) Change in colour
c
9. Which of the following is not a component of solid state sensor used for detection of hydrogen sulphide?
a) Heater
b) Thermistor
c) Semiconductor film
d) Photo detector
d
10. The diagram of Electrochemical cell used for the detection of hydrogen sulphide is given below. Identify the unmarked component.
a) Filter
b) Gas permeable membrane
c) Elastic layer
d) Electrolyte
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – NO2 Analyser» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Infrared Gas Analysers 
