1. Which of the following is the disadvantage of reciprocating pump used in liquid chromatography?
a) Produces pulsed flow
b) Corrosive components
c) Does not have small hold-up value
d) Does not have moderate flow rate
a
2. Which of the following is not a disadvantage of Pneumatic pumps used in liquid chromatography?
a) Pulsed output
b) Dependent on solvent viscosity
c) Dependent on back pressure
d) Inconvenient for solvent gradient elution
a
3. Which of the following is not a desired characteristic of pulse dampers or flow smootheners used in liquid chromatography?
a) Easy mobile phase change over
b) Constant flow must be maintained
c) Should be effective at low system pressure
d) Maximal dead volume
d
4. Which of the following will improve the efficiency of the separation process in liquid chromatography?
a) Increase in sample size, increase in column diameter
b) Reduction in sample size, increase in column diameter
c) Increase in sample size, reduction in column diameter
d) Reduction in sample size, reduction in column diameter
d
5. Which of the following are the practical problems that arise due to the decrease in column diameter?
a) Requirement of large particle size and high pressure drop
b) Requirement of large particle size and low pressure drop
c) Requirement of small particle size and high pressure drop
d) Requirement of small particle size and low pressure drop
c
6. Which of the following is not true about the guard column used in liquid chromatography?
a) It filters particles that clog the separation column
b) It extends the lifetime of separation column
c) It allows particles that cause precipitation upon contact with stationary or mobile phase
d) The size of packing varies with the type of protection needed
c
7. Which of the following columns are not used in liquid or high performance liquid chromatography?
a) Analytical column
b) Separation column
c) Guard column
d) Capillary column
d
8. Which of the following is not a Column-type Liquid chromatography?
a) Gel permeation
b) Ion exchange
c) Liquid-solid
d) Paper
d
9. Which of the following is not true about the radial compression column when compared to standard separation column?
a) Internal diameter decreases
b) Overall operating pressure decreases
c) Analysis time decreases
d) Solvent flow increases
a
10. Which of the following is not true about narrow bore column when compared to standard columns?
a) Internal diameter decreases
b) Volumetric flow decreases
c) Solvent cost is saved
d) Detector response time increases
d
11. Which of the following types of liquid chromatography uses immobilized biochemical as a stationary phase?
a) Ion exchange chromatography
b) Exclusion chromatography
c) Affinity chromatography
d) Gel permeation chromatography
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Gas Solid Chromatography» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – High Pressure Liquid Chromatography 
