1. Fourier transform NMR spectrometer allows NMR transitions to be observed simultaneously.
a) True
b) False
a
2. Fourier transform NMR spectrometer has which of the following characteristics?
a) Increased sensitivity, long time to obtain data
b) Decreased sensitivity, long time to obtain data
c) Increased sensitivity, reduced time to obtain data
d) Decreased sensitivity, reduced time to obtain data
c
3. Which of the following cannot be done due to the multiplex advantage?
a) Repetitive signals can be summed
b) Repetitive signals can be averaged
c) Increases signal to noise ratio
d) Decreases signal to noise ratio
d
4. Two coils are necessary for Fourier transform NMR spectroscopy.
a) True
b) False
b
5. Which of the following is the disadvantage of conventional mode of spectrometer or continuous-wave NMR spectrometer?
a) They are unstable
b) Maintenance is difficult
c) High operating cost
d) Excitation is inefficient
d
6. Which of the following must be done to improve sensitivity?
a) Frequency sweep mode must be preferred
b) Field sweep mode must be preferred
c) Single channel excitation must be preferred
d) Multichannel excitation must be preferred
d
7. Which of the following is the disadvantage of multichannel excitation?
a) Low sensitivity
b) Low resolution
c) Small number of frequencies is present
d) Uneconomical
d
8. How can the need for an array of narrow-band filters and detectors be eliminated?
a) By using multi-channel excitation
b) By using a detector for each frequency
c) By reducing the number of detectors
d) By using Fourier transform
d
9. Fourier transform can be accomplished by using which of the following components?
a) Spin decoder
b) Detector
c) Spectrum analyser
d) Oscilloscope
c
10. A 15.4 MHz crystal generates the _________ resonance frequency.
a) Hydrogen
b) Deuterium
c) Tritium
d) Helium
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Continuous Wave NMR Spectroscopy» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Sensivity Enhancement for NMR Spectroscopy 
