1. In West-Gaeke colourimetric procedure, the intensity of the red purple colour is measured photometically and it is proportional to the concentration of sulphur dioxide. What is the red purple coloured compound?
a) Sodium tetra chloromercurate
b) Dicholorosulphitomercurate complex
c) Ammonia molybdate
d) Paraosaniline sulphonic acid
d
2.  The conductivitimetry method, involves bubbling sulphur dioxide through a solution containing sulphuric acid and which of the following?
a) Water
b) Hydrogen peroxide
c) Iodine
d) Formaldehyde
b
3. Which of the following are not the characteristics of conductivitimetry method used to measure sulphur dioxide?
a) Fast response
b) High sensitivity
c) Free from interference by other gases
d) Good accuracy
c
4. Which of the following are not the characteristics of colorimetry method used to monitor sulphur dioxide?
a) It is simple
b) It has high sensitivity
c) It has good specificity
d) It is affected by interference from H2SO4, SO3, NH3, etc
d
5. Which of the following is not true about using gas chromatography for measuring pollutants in the air?
a) Pollutants react rapidly in the column
b) Pollutants may not be detected by the detectors
c) Special column and support materials are required
d) Pollutants may elude rapidly from the column
d
Join [email protected]
6. The ability of sulphur dioxide to reduce iodine is used in which of the following methods?
a) Colorimetry
b) Conductivitimetry
c) Coulometry
d) Gas chromatography
c
7. Which of the following materials are used as electrodes in the coulometric method for the measurement of sulphur dioxide?
a) Gold
b) Silver
c) Platinum
d) Nickel
c
8. Which of the following is the detection limit of the coulometric method used for measurement of sulphur dioxide?
a) 0.1 ppm
b) 1 ppm
c) 2 ppm
d) 0.01 ppm
d
9. Sensitivity to total sulphur by Flame-photometric detector is which of the following levels?
a) 0.1 ppm
b) 1 ppm
c) 2 ppm
d) 0.01 ppm
d
10. Which of the following methods are not used for the measurement of sulphur dioxide?
a) Colorimetric method
b) Correlation spectroscopy
c) Paramagnetic analyzers
d) Flame-photometry
c
11. Which of the following is the wavelength of the radiation generated when an air stream containing sulphur dioxide is burned in a hydrogen-rich flame?
a) 243 nm
b) 394 nm
c) 467 nm
d) 516 nm
b
12. Given below, is the diagram of Ultraviolet Fluorescence method. Identify the unmarked component.
a) Filter
b) Electronic circuit
c) Supply
d) Fluorescence chamber
d
13. In conductivitimetric method, the concentration of sulphur dioxide is proportional to which of the following parameters of the saw-tooth waveform?
a) Average voltage
b) Peak voltage
c) Slope
d) RMS voltage
c
14. In the conductivitimetric method, to measure the conductivity of the cell, 5V ___________ is applied across the electrodes.
a) DC
b) AC
c) Pulsating DC
d) DC or AC
b
15. The response of coulometric method is instantaneous.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Method Based on Ionization of Gases» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Estimation of Nitrogen Oxides 
