1. Which is the missing block in the block diagram for Absorption of Radiation Instrument given below?
a) Filter
b) Reflector
c) Converging lens
d) Detector
d
2. Which of the following detectors does not require a battery and is also known as barrier layer cell?
a) Photomultiplier tube
b) Photovoltaic cell
c) Photoemissive tubes
d) Photo reflector
b
3. Which of the following detectors is used to detect light intensities which are very weak?
a) Photomultiplier tube
b) Photovoltaic cell
c) Photoemissive tubes
d) Photo reflector
a
4. How is Tungsten Halogen lamp differs from normal Tungsten filament lamp used in absorption spectroscopy?
a) It has a tungsten filament and is filled with inert gas
b) Iodine is added to normal filling gas
c) Iodine is coated on tungsten filament
d) Iodine is added to inert gas
b
5. Instead of glass filters, why gelatin filters could not be used for a long period while both are Absorption filters?
a) Gelatin tends to evaporate and hence they deteriorate
b) Gelatin is affected by humidity in the environment
c) They deteriorate due to absorption of heat leading to changes in gelatin
d) Gelation is affected by temperature in the environment
c
6. How does continuous wedge filter differ from normal interference filter used in absorption spectroscopy?
a) It permits continuous selection of different wavelength
b) It allows a narrow band of wavelengths to pass
c) It has two semi-transparent layers of silver
d) Space layer is made of a substance having low refractive index
a
7. Which of the following could be used as the layer of dielectric in interference filters used in Absorption Spectroscopy?
a) Graphite
b) MgF2
c) Fe
d) AgNO3
b
8. How can stability of radiation be achieved in incandescent or discharge source used in Absorption Spectroscopy?
a) Using filters
b) Using monochromators
c) Using slits
d) By controlling the source voltage
d
9. To tolerate high operating temperatures, which of the following has to be done in incandescent or tungsten filament lamps?
a) Alloys must be used
b) Nitrogen be used instead of inert gas
c) Envelope is fabricated with quartz
d) Envelope is fabricated with copper
c
10. Which of the following is not a reason for laser not being generally used as a source of radiation for UV, Visible Spectroscopy?
a) High cost
b) Limited range of wavelength
c) Less intensity
d) Complex to work with
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Introduction to UV Visible Spectrometers» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Single Beam and Double Beam Instruments 
