1. Which of the following is not a source used in Mid Infrared Spectrophotometer?
a) Nernst glower
b) High pressure mercury arc lamp
c) Globar
d) Nichrome wire
b
2. Which of the following is the wave number of near infrared spectrometer?
a) 4000 – 200 cm-1
b) 200 – 10 cm-1
c) 12500 – 4000 cm-1
d) 50 – 1000 cm-1
c
3. Which of the following options are correct in terms of wavelength for the different types of IR spectrometer?
a) Near IR: 0.8 – 2.5 mm
b) Mid IR: 0.8 – 2.5 mm
c) Far IR: 2.5 – 50 mm
d) Mid IR: 50 – 100 mm
a
4. Which of the following is not a composition of Nernst glower or Nernst filament?
a) Oxides of Zirconium
b) Oxides of Barium
c) Oxides of Yitrium
d) Oxides of Thorium
b
5. What is the composition of Globar rod which is used as a source in Mid IR spectroscopy?
a) Silicon carbide
b) Silver chloride
c) Silicon dioxide
d) Silver carbide
a
6. Bolometer, a type of detector, is also known as ___________
a) Resistance temperature detector (RTD)
b) Thermistor
c) Thermocouple
d) Golay cell
b
7. Which of the following is not a technique for preparing solid samples in IR spectroscopy?
a) Solids run in solution
b) Mull technique
c) Solid films
d) Thin films
d
8. Which of the following is not used as pyroelectric material used in pyroelectric transducers in Infrared spectroscopy?
a) Triglycine Sulphate
b) Deutrated Triglycine Sulphate
c) Some Polymers
d) Tetraglycine sulphate
d
9. Which of the following is the principle of Golay cell which is used as a detector in IR spectroscopy?
a) Expansion of gas upon heating
b) Increase in resistance due to an increase in temperature and vice versa
c) Temperature difference gives rise to a potential difference in the material
d) Decrease in resistance due to an increase in temperature
a
10. In a solid sample treatment technique, the finely ground solid sample is mixed with mineral oil to make a thick paste which is then spread between IR transmitting windows. What is the name of this solid sample treatment technique?
a) Pressed pellet
b) Mull technique
c) Solid films
d) Solids run in solution
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Single Beam and Double Beam Instruments» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Fourier Transform Infra-red Spectrometers 
