1. Which of the following is not true about the galvanic method of oxygen analysis?
a) Electrodes are composed of noble and base metals
b) It can measure dissolved content of oxygen
c) Its principle is based on electrolysis
d) It utilizes an electronic cell
c
2. Which of the following is true about Hersch cell which is one of the arrangements of a galvanic cell?
a) Cell is spherical in shape
b) Cathode is made of porous material
c) Cathode is placed centrally
d) Cathode is formed by gauze which surrounds the anode
d
3. Polarographic cells type of electrochemical method uses which of the following concepts?
a) Cyclic reactions
b) Exothermic reactions
c) Reversible reactions
d) Redox reactions
d
4. Which of the following methods, is the widely used method for trace gas analysis?
a) Galvanic methods
b) Conductometric method
c) Polarographic cells
d) Thermal conductivity method
b
5. In the conductometric method, the difference in gas conductivity before and after passing sample gas denotes which of the following?
a) Efficiency of the cell
b) Quantity of reagent
c) Concentration of gas
d) Density of the reagent
c
6. Conductometric method is not very suitable for measuring traces of which of the following gases in ppb range?
a) H2S
b) SO2
c) NH3
d) CO
d
7. Polarographic cells are not sensitive to which of the following gases?
a) Carbon monoxide
b) Carbon dioxide
c) Nitrous oxide
d) Oxygen
a
8. In polarographic cell when potential is applied, oxygen is reduced at __________ when KCl is present.
a) Anode
b) Cathode
c) Electrolyte
d) Both the electrode
b
9. Polarographic cells are used to measure the partial pressure of gases only in static gas monitoring systems and not in continuous streams.
a) True
b) False
b
10. Polarographic cells used for measuring the partial pressure of oxygen are temperature-sensitive.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice basic questions and answers on all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Magnetic Wind Instruments» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – NO2 Analyser 
