1. Which of the following is the most sensitive of the spectral methods?
a) Absorption spectroscopy
b) Mass spectroscopy
c) Flame emission spectroscopy
d) Atomic emission spectroscopy
b
2. Which of the following is the disadvantage of gas chromatography?
a) It is not a good method
b) It cannot be used for qualitative analysis
c) It cannot be used for the separation of volatile components
d) It does not provide direct identification
d
3. Cold tray is provided for liquid N2 or CO2 but is used only for extremely small samples.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Which of the following is most often used in the chromatograph in gas chromatograph MS?
a) Curvette
b) Paper support
c) Capillary tube
d) Flask
c
5. GC- MS has been developed for which of the following systems?
a) Packed column
b) Open tubular column
c) Capillary column
d) Porous layer column
a
6. Which of the following problems occur when combining gas chromatography and mass spectroscopy?
a) Difference in operating pressures
b) Reduction in sensitivity
c) Direct identification is not possible
d) It does not permit direct introduction of the effluent
a
7. The carrier gas with low molecular weight would diffuse at a higher rate than the higher molecular weight sample.
a) True
b) False
a
8. Which of the following is the type of separator used in commercial GC-MS systems?
a) Jet type molecular separator
b) Porous tube
c) Teflon tube
d) Flow type separator
a
9. The system for measurement of ion intensity in GS-MS system consists of which of the following?
a) Electrometer
b) Ion meter
c) Ion transducer
d) Intensity meter
a
10. The system for measurement of ion intensity in GS-MS system consists of which of the following?
a) Band pass amplifier
b) Narrow band amplifier
c) Wide band amplifier
d) Low pass amplifier
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometer» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Liquid Chromatograph- Mass Spectrometer 
