1. Mass spectrometers are used to determine which of the following?
a) Composition in sample
b) Concentration of elements in sample
c) Relative mass of atoms
d) Properties of sample
c
2. Who invented mass spectrometers?
a) J.J Thompson
b) Goldstein
c) Nikola Tesla
d) Aston
a
3. In mass spectrometer, the sample that has to be analysed is bombarded with which of the following?
a) Protons
b) Electrons
c) Neutrons
d) Alpha particles
b
4. Mass spectrometer separates ions on the basis of which of the following?
a) Mass
b) Charge
c) Molecular weight
d) Mass to charge ratio
d
5. In mass spectrometer, the ions are sorted out in which of the following ways?
a) By accelerating them through electric field
b) By accelerating them through magnetic field
c) By accelerating them through electric and magnetic field
d) By applying a high voltage
c
6. No two molecules will be fragmented and ionized in exactly the same manner.
a) True
b) False
a
7. The procedure for mass spectroscopy starts with which of the following processes?
a) The sample is bombarded by electron beam
b) The ions are separated by passing them into electric and magnetic field
c) The sample is converted into gaseous state
d) The ions are detected
c
8. In a mass spectrometer, the ion currents are measured using which of the following?
a) Scintillation counter
b) Ion counter
c) Electrometer tube
d) Electric fields
c
9. Which of the following ions pass through the slit and reach the collecting plate?
a) Negative ions of all masses
b) Positive ions of all masses
c) Negative ions of specific mass
d) Positive ions of specific mass
d
10. Which of the following statements is not true about mass spectrometry?
a) Impurities of masses different from the one being analysed interferes with the result
b) It has great sensitivity
c) It is suitable for data storage
d) It is suitable for library retrieval
a
11. In mass spectrometer, the sample gas is introduced into the highly evacuated spectrometer tube and it is ionised by electron beam.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice  all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Sensivity Enhancement for NMR Spectroscopy» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Components of Mass Spectrometer 
