1. Gas-solid chromatography is based on which of the following processes?
a) Partition of the analyte between a gaseous mobile phase and a stationary liquid phase
b) Adsorption of gaseous substances on solid surface
c) Ion exchange
d) Large molecules cannot penetrate through the gel
b
2. Which of the following components cannot be retained by gas-liquid columns but can be separated by using gas-solid chromatography?
a) Formaldehyde
b) Hydrogen sulphide
c) Benzene
d) Carbon dioxide
b
3. Which of the following is not an advantage of gas-solid chromatography?
a) Increased column life
b) Can be used for separation of rare gases
c) Leads to semi-permanent retention of the analyte
d) Ability to retain some components that cannot be easily retained by other gas chromatography method
c
4. The distribution coefficients of Gas-solid chromatography are greater than that of Gas-liquid chromatography.
a) True
b) False
a
5. Which of the following columns can be used in Gas-solid chromatography?
a) Open tubular column
b) Analytical column
c) Separation column
d) Guard column
a
6. Which of the following is not an advantage for the conversion of packed columns into wide bore capillaries?
a) Longer retention times
b) Longer life
c) Higher efficiency
d) Greater inertness
a
7. Which of the following is not a disadvantage of gas-solid chromatography?
a) Strong retention of polar solutes
b) Lifetime is short
c) Occurrence of catalytic changes
d) Cannot be used for very wide range of components
b
8. Gas-solid chromatography can be used only for separation of certain low molecular weight gaseous species.
a) True
b) False
a
9. Which of the following is a special adsorbent used in gas-solid chromatography?
a) Molecular sieves
b) Silica gel
c) Alumina
d) Starch
a
10. Which of the following properties of molecular sieves make it ideal for exclusion mechanism of separation?
a) High thermal stability
b) Large inner surface area
c) Variable framework charge
d) Ability to distinguish materials on the basis of their size
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Detection System of Gas Chromatography» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Liquid Chromatography 
