1. Which of the following is the full scale range of Infrared spectroscopy method used for measurement of carbon monoxide?
a) 0-2 ppm
b) 0-500 ppm
c) 0-1 ppm
d) 0-50 ppm
d
2. Which of the following is the full scale range of Gas chromatography method used for measurement of carbon monoxide?
a) 0-200 ppm
b) 0-500 ppm
c) 0-1 ppm
d) 0-50 ppm
a
3. Which of the following are not the characteristics of Non-dispersive infrared analyzer method?
a) Easy to maintain
b) High response speed
c) Effect of interfering components is high
d) High sensitivity
c
4. Non-dispersive infrared analyzer depends on the characteristic absorption of the CO molecule at a wavelength of __________
a) 5.4 µm
b) 4.6 µm
c) 8.9 µm
d) 10.8 µm
b
5. The zero of the scale is calibrated using which of the following as the sample?
a) Air
b) Water
c) Inert gas
d) Pure nitrogen
d
6. The disadvantage of Non-dispersive infrared analyzer is that the effect of flow rate is large.
a) True
b) False
b
7. A stripper column used in gas chromatography, can be used to retain which of the following when an air sample is passed through it?
a) CO
b) Methane
c) Light hydrocarbons
d) Heavy hydrocarbons
d
8. Which of the following is not a component of the mixture present in the reference cell of Non-dispersive infrared analyzer?
a) CO
b) Nitrogen
c) Water vapour
d) Hydrogen
d
9. Hydrogen flame ionization detector can be used to detect only the peak of CO and not methane.
a) True
b) False
b
10. CO analyzers based on infrared absorption would give greater sensitivity under which of the following conditions?
a) With larger cell path lengths
b) With smaller cell path lengths
c) By changing the gases in the reference cell
d) By increasing the sample flow rate
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Estimation of Nitrogen Oxides» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Estimation of Hydrocarbons 
