1. Gases emit radiation under which of the following conditions which can be used for determination of gases?
a) When mixed with other gases
b) When kept at suitable temperature
c) With sufficient electrical excitation and at suitable pressures
d) When exposed to radiation
c
2. Which of the following measuring technique is utilized for measuring nitrogen?
a) By using a method based on gas density
b) By using paramagnetic analyzers
c) By using magnetic wind instruments
d) By using a photospectrometer where a gas sample is analysed and detected with a photocell
d
3. The characteristic emission of which colour, when discharge takes place in a low pressure chamber containing gas sample, will indicate the presence of nitrogen while using photospectrometer?
a) Purple
b) Blue
c) Pink
d) Green
a
4. Sample rates of nitrogen meter can be adjusted by doing which of the following?
a) By modifying the amplifier
b) With the help of the needle valve
c) By modifying the detector
d) By changing chopper frequency
b
5. Which of the following is the normal sampling rate used in nitrogen meters?
a) 13 ml/min
b) 33 ml/min
c) 3 ml/min
d) 43 ml/min
c
6. Nitrogen meters are calibrated for which of the following to measure nitrogen?
a) Mixture of nitrogen and air
b) Water saturated mixture of nitrogen and oxygen
c) Mixture of nitrogen and hydrogen
d) Nitrogen
b
7. Why is nitrogen meters generally not calibrated for dry gases while measuring nitrogen?
a) It causes error
b) Range decreases
c) Reading tend to be non-linear
d) It cannot be measured
a
8. In which of the following ways can nitrogen be calibrated for dry gases?
a) By modifying the amplifier
b) By adjusting the needle valve
c) By modifying the detector
d) By changing chopper frequency
b
9. The voltage required for striking the discharge in the presence of nitrogen is 1500V.
a) True
b) False
a
10. The light output from the discharge tube is interrupted by means of a rotating slotted disc.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation for Experienced people, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Analysers Based on Gas Density» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Sulphur Di-oxide Monitoring 
