1. Thermal conductivity analyzers cannot be used in which of the following measurements?
a) Hydrogen in blast furnace gases
b) Determination of argon in oxygen in the process of air decomposition
c) Sulphur dioxide in roasting gases in production of sulphuric acid
d) Oxygen from a mixture of oxygen and nitrogen
d
2. In which of the following conditions can thermal conductivity analyzer be used for multi-component mixtures?
a) When all the components have same thermal conductivities
b) When all the components have very different thermal conductivities
c) When all but one component have same thermal conductivities
d) When all components have very different thermal conductivities except two of them which are the same
c
3. Which among the following elements has the highest thermal conductivity?
a) Nitrogen
b) Oxygen
c) Hydrogen
d) Chlorine
c
4. Which of the following materials are generally not used for the construction of filaments in thermal conductivity analyzers?
a) Tungsten
b) Gold
c) Platinum
d) Kovar
b
5. Thermistors have positive temperature-coefficient of resistance.
a) True
b) False
b
6. Which of the following is not the characteristic of thermistors used in thermal conductivity analyzers?
a) High negative temperature coefficient of resistance
b) Slow response
c) Extremely sensitive
d) Low cost
b
7. How can the high speed of response be obtained in thermal conductivity analyzers?
a) By increasing the pressure of gas surrounding the filaments
b) By reducing the pressure of gas surrounding the filaments
c) By reducing the temperature of gas surrounding the filaments
d) By increasing the temperature of gas surrounding the filaments
b
8. Which of the following bridges are used in thermal conductivity analyzers?
a) Wheatstone bridge
b) Kelvin’s bridge
c) Anderson’s bridge
d) Schering’s bridge
a
9. Which of the following is generally used as indicators in bridges in thermal conductivity analyzers?
a) Voltmeter
b) Ammeter
c) Galvanometer
d) Wattmeter
c
10. Changes in the composition of gas stream give rise to changes in thermal conductivity of the gas stream.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Infrared Gas Analysers» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Analysers Based on Gas Density 
