1. Which of the following is the relationship between the density of ideal gas and its molecular weight?
a) Directly proportional
b) Inversely proportional
c) Linear
d) No relation
c
2. Under which of the following conditions do all real gases behave as ideal gases to some extent?
a) Low temperature and low pressure
b) Low temperature and high pressure
c) High temperature and low pressure
d) Room temperature and normal pressure
d
3. Which of the following detectors are not used in analyzers based on gas density?
a) Hot wire
b) Platinum filament
c) Thermistor
d) Thermometer
d
4. When would the recorder indicate a zero base line in analyzers based on gas density?
a) When the detector on the sample side is cooler than that on the reference side
b) When the detector on the reference side is cooler than that on the sample side
c) When flow is unbalanced
d) When both the detectors are equally cooled
d
5. The use of thermistor eliminates the requirement for amplification.
a) True
b) False
a
6. In analyzers based on gas density, the unbalance of the bridge is linearly proportional to which of the following?
a) Temperature of sample detector
b) Pressure at sample detector
c) Pressure difference between both the detectors
d) Gas-density difference between both the detectors
d
7. Which of the following bridges are used in analyzers based on gas density?
a) Wheatstone bridge
b) Kelvin’s bridge
c) Anderson’s bridge
d) Schering’s bridge
a
8. In analyzers based on gas density, if the sample carries a gas having a higher density than the detector which of the following occurs?
a) It will cause a net downward flow
b) It will cause a net upward flow
c) It splits into two beams
d) There will be no difference in flow
a
9. When hot-wires are used as detectors amplification is not required.
a) True
b) False
b
10. Which of the following is the effective sample volume in analyzers based on gas density?
a) 10 ml
b) 20 ml
c) 5 ml
d) 50 ml
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Thermal Conductivity Analysers» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Method Based on Ionization of Gases 
