1. Which of the following statements is false about single beam absorption instruments?
a) Tungsten bulb is used as a source
b) Beam splitter is used to get parallel beam
c) Test tube is used as sample holder
d) Photovoltaic cell as detector
b
2. Which of the following statement is false about double beam absorption instruments?
a) It is similar to single beam instruments except two beams are present
b) Tungsten bulb is used as a source
c) Reference beam must have a higher intensity than sample beam
d) Both the beams after they pass through respective samples are compared
c
3. Which of the following is not an application of colorimeter?
a) Paints
b) Inks
c) Cosmetics
d) Composition detection
d
4. In photometers, the readings of the specimen are initially obtained in the form of which of the following parameters?
a) Transmittance
b) Absorption
c) Wavelengths
d) Volume
a
5. Colorimeters are used in applications where great accuracy is required.
a) True
b) False
b
6. In the diagram of single beam photometer given below, identify the component that is not marked.
a) Monochromator
b) Absorption filter
c) Sample holder
d) Interference filter
c
7. Colorimeters are used to determine the concentration of solutions.
a) True
b) False
a
8. Which of the following is the purpose of balance indicator in double beam photometer or colorimeter?
a) Selects a particular wavelength
b) Splits the wavelength selected into two equal beams
c) Detects and indicates the amount of light falling on it
d) Indicates the difference between the output of two photometers
d
9. Which of the following is the purpose of the beam splitter in double beam photometer or colorimeter?
a) Splits beam into two equal intensity beams
b) Splits beam in such a way that sample beam has higher intensity
c) Splits beam in such a way that a reference beam has higher intensity
d) Merge two equal intensity beams into single beam
a
10. Which of the following is a source used in spectroscopy?
a) LASER
b) Tube light
c) Sodium vapour lamp
d) Tungsten lamp
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Absorption Instrumentation and Block Diagram Representation» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Instrumentation of IR 
