1. What is the drawback that occurs in using ion exchange chromatography on sulphonated polystyrene resin and colourimetry for amino-acid analysis?
a) Less accuracy
b) Low resolution
c) Inconvenient to handle many individual samples
d) Slow in operation
c
2. Which one of the following methods is the most suitable for amino-acid analysis?
a) Gas chromatography
b) Ion exchange chromatography
c) Paper electrophoresis
d) Resin column chromatography
d
3. Which of the following colour reagents are used in Resin column chromatography?
a) Marquis reagent
b) Benedict reagent
c) Ninhydrin
d) Nessler’s reagent
d
4. Which of the following amino-acids is measured at a wavelength of 440nm using photometric systems?
a) Proline
b) Alanine
c) Glutamine
d) Valine
a
5. In Automatic amino-acid analyzer, the sample containing ___________ of each amino compound is introduced at the top of the ion exchange column.
a) 1 to 10 µmoles
b) 1 to 10 moles
c) 0.05 to 2 moles
d) 0.05 to 2 µmoles
d
6. Which of the following cannot be analysed using resin column chromatography?
a) Peptides
b) Amines
c) Amino compounds
d) Components which are ninhydrin negative
d
7. Trapped air in pumps of Automatic amino-acid analyzer is eliminated using which of the following ways?
a) Suction pump
b) De-aerator
c) Overcome naturally by pump pressure
d) Using pulse damper
b
8. Amino-acids are distinguishable from each other only by one or two atoms in their structure.
a) True
b) False
a
9. What is the drawback that occurs in using gas chromatography for amino-acid analysis?
a) Costly
b) Cannot be used for proteins or polypeptides
c) Slow process
d) Complex in operation
b
10. Resin column chromatography does not involve breaking of bonds in amino-acids.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Detection System of Liquid Chromatography» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Paramagnetic Oxygen Analyser 
