1. Which of the following is not a type of optics employed in electron probe microanalyser?
a) Electron optics
b) Light optics
c) X-ray optics
d) Gamma optics
d
2. The electron optics consists of an electron gun followed by which of the following components?
a) Collimator
b) Slit
c) Amplifier
d) Electron beam probe
d
3. The specimen is mounted inside which of the following components?
a) Test tube
b) Glass capillary tube
c) Vacuum column
d) Curvette
c
4. The electrons are accelerated by voltages in which of the following ranges?
a) 5 and 50kV
b) 50 and 500kV
c) 500 and 5000kV
d) 25 and 250kV
a
5. Electron probe microanalyser is a method of destructive elemental analysis.
a) True
b) False
a
6. Which of the following is the effective resolution limit in electron probe microanalyser?
a) 1mm
b) 10mm
c) 100mm
d) 1000mm
a
7. Micro probe analyser cannot be used on inhomogeneous material.
a) True
b) False
b
8. X-ray emission must be analysed against a background of _______ radiation.
a) Blue
b) Yellow
c) White
d) Green
c
9. Which of the following is the limit of detectability of electron microprobe analyser?
a) 10-14 g
b) 10-140 g
c) 10-7 g
d) 10-70 g
a
10. The alternative method using laser does not analyse vapours by which of the following methods?
a) Mass spectrometer
b) Optical emission
c) Absorption photometry
d) X-ray photometry
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Total Reflection X-Ray Fluorescence Spectrometer» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Principle of Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectrometer 
