1. Which of the following is placed just before the detector in a radiofrequency mass spectrometer?
a) Ion source
b) Potential energy selector
c) Ionisation chamber
d) Reflectron
b
2. Which of the following is applied in one or more stages where each stage is a series of three equally spaced parallel grids?
a) Ionisation field
b) Reflection
c) RF field
d) Acceleration
c
3. The alternating voltage rf voltage is applied to which of the following?
a) All grids
b) Central grid
c) Alternate grids
d) None of the grids
b
4. The rf spectrometer contains a magnet.
a) True
b) False
b
5. The DC ion accelerating voltage is swept from _________
a) 0 to 50 V
b) 50 to 100 V
c) 200 to 300 V
d) 50 to 250 V
d
6. The resolution of the Bennet tube can be improved by using which of the following?
a) Sine wave rf signal
b) Square wave rf signal
c) Triangular wave rf signal
d) Random signal
b
7. In Bennet spectrometer, the rf voltage has a fixed frequency.
a) True
b) False
a
8. The spurious lines can be reduced to a minimum by using which of the following?
a) Single stage tube
b) Two stage tube
c) Three stage tube
d) Reflectron
c
9. Which of the following is the disadvantage of using three stage tubes?
a) Reduced resolution
b) Bulky construction
c) Complex
d) Heavy
a
10. Which of the following is not the feature of Bennet type spectrometer?
a) Lightweight
b) Simple
c) Absence of spurious lines
d) Moderate resolution
c
11. The resolving power of Bennet type spectrometer is primarily based on which of the following?
a) Distance between detector and reflectron
b) Difference between the individual rf accelerating stages
c) Length of the drift tube
d) Laser beam used
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Time of Flight Mass Spectrometer» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Quadrupole Mass Spectrometer 
