1. Which of the following is not a detector used in mid Infrared Spectrophotometer?
a) Thermopile
b) Thermistor
c) Pyroelectric cell
d) Golay cell
d
2. Why is the use of infrared analyzers limited when it comes to the analysis of inorganic compounds?
a) Slow response occurs
b) Less accurate results occur
c) Strong absorption of IR radiation by water
d) Small range
c
3. Which of the following is the chopping frequency used for industrial analyzers in the simple infrared analyser for gas analysis?
a) 2-10 Hz
b) 2-50 Hz
c) 2-100 Hz
d) 2-150 Hz
a
4. Which of the following is used as a source in the simple infrared analyzer for gas analysis?
a) Tungsten filament lamp
b) Nernst glower
c) Hot-wire spiral
d) Mercury arc lamp
c
5. Vibration excitation occurs only if the sample has hetero-atomic molecules.
a) True
b) False
a
6. Which of the following is the chopping frequency used for medical applications in simple infrared analyser for gas analysis?
a) 2-10 Hz
b) 2-50 Hz
c) 2-100 Hz
d) 2-150 Hz
b
7. The movement of diaphragm in simple infrared analyser for gas analysis results in which of the following?
a) Variable resistance
b) Variable inductance
c) Variable capacitance
d) Variable conductance
c
8. Which of the following is not the drawback of conventional infrared analyzers used for gas analysis?
a) Cell is difficult to maintain
b) It is expensive to replace
c) Detector is vibration sensitive
d) Only one source is used
d
9. Which of the following is used as detector in improved infrared analyzer used for gas analysis?
a) PbSe
b) MgCl2
c) ZnCl
d) CuCl2
a
10. In calibration of CO2 analyser, in order to establish zero calibration which of the following is used as sample?
a) Oxygen
b) Hydrogen
c) Inert gases
d) Nitrogen
c
11. Which of the following is not the characteristics of Indium arsenide photovoltaic detector used in infrared analyzers for hydrocarbons?
a) It operates at ambient temperature
b) Has maximum detectivity at 3.4µm
c)  Sensitivity increases at longer wavelength
d) It has no response to radiation of wavelength greater than 4µm
c
12. Luft detector cell which uses gas as detection mechanism is not vibration sensitive.
a) True
b) False
b
13. Which kind of filter is used in improved version of infrared gas analyzer at the output end?
a) Low pass filter
b) High pass filter
c) Narrow bandpass filter
d) Wide bandpass filter
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – H2S Analysers» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Thermal Conductivity Analysers 
