1. Sensitivity is the ratio of peak signal amplitude to which of the following?
a) Time
b) Rms noise
c) Average noise
d) Peak-to-peak noise
b
2. Which of the following is not an operating technique for sensitivity enhancement?
a) Optimization of sample volume
b) Optimization of instrumental parameters
c) Optimization of noise
d) Time averaging
c
3. Which of the following techniques do not enhance sensitivity by a factor of 10 at normal operating conditions?
a) Optimization of sample volume
b) Optimization of instrumental parameters
c) Optimization of noise
d) Time averaging
d
4. The most common spherical cells have which of the following dimensions?
a) 4mm diameter
b) 40mm diameter
c) 8mm diameter
d) 80mm diameter
a
5. Better sensitivity with good resolution can be achieved by concentrating the sample inside which of the following?
a) Sample cell
b) Micro cell
c) Sample tube
d) Cylindrical tube
b
6. Frequency spectrum of noise occupies a band that is _________ the signal spectrum. Choose the most appropriate option.
a) Narrow than
b) Wider than
c) Different from
d) Same as
b
7. Suppression of frequencies which contain no signal does which of the following?
a) Increases S/N ratio
b) Decreases S/N ratio
c) S/N ratio is kept constant
d) S/N ratio becomes 1
a
8. The amplitude of the NMR signal caused by the absorption of RF energy at the radio frequency does not depend upon the power of the RF energy applied.
a) True
b) False
b
9. Which of the following is not involved in signal averaging?
a) A system to repeatedly scan the spectral region of interest
b) Some storage device to store information
c) A system to coherently add individual spectra
d) Sweep generator
d
10. In order to have a long measuring time for increasing sensitivity, it is better to have several fast scans than a single slow scan.
a) True
b) False
a
11. In Spin Decoupler, the output of the DC amplifier is applied to which of the following to control the power supplied to the oven heaters?
a) Power diode
b) Power transistor
c) Power MOSFET
d) Power IGBT
b
12. In Spin Decoupler, the difference frequency circuit provides a means of mixing two signals and a filter to recover which of the following?
a) Low-frequency component
b) High-frequency component
c) Low-voltage component
d) High-voltage component
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Fourier Transform NMR Spectroscopy» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Principle of operation of Mass Spectrometer 
