1. Which of the following is not a characteristic of the immobilized enzymes?
a) They cannot be re-used
b) It produces reproducible results
c) Stability exists
d) Same catalytic activity is present for number of analysis
a
2. Which of the following is the physico-chemical component?
a) Enzymes
b) Anti-bodies
c) Transducer
d) Cells or tissues
c
3. An example of biosensor, urea electrode makes use of which of the following electrodes?
a) Carbon dioxide electrode
b) Ammonia electrode
c) Fluoride electrode
d) Ammonium electrode
d
4. In glucose electrode, glucose oxidase has been coupled to an electrode by which of the following materials?
a) Ferrocene derivatives
b) Urease
c) Polyacrylamide
d) Biochips
a
5. Biosensors measure glucose concentrations between which of the following ranges?
a) 10-1 to 10-2 M
b) 10-2 to 10-4 M
c) 10-1 to 10-4 M
d) 10-1 to 10-7 M
d
6. Transducers employed in the bulk of enzyme electrodes use which of the following principles?
a) Amperometric
b) Optical
c) Magnetic
d) Colorimetric
a
7. Which of these biosensors use the principle of heat released or absorbed by a reaction?
a) Potentiometric biosensor
b) Optical biosensors
c) Piezo-electric biosensors
d) Calorimetric biosensors
d
8. Which of the following biosensors use the movement of electrons produced during redox reactions?
a) Amperometric biosensor
b) Potentiometric biosensors
c) Piezo-electric biosensors
d) Optical biosensors
a
9. Nanoscopic optical biosensors have fast response time but the sensitivity is reduced.
a) True
b) False
b
10. Given below is the diagram of biosensor. Identify the unmarked component.
a) Microprocessor
b) Filter
c) Transducer
d) A/D converter
c
11. In glucose sensor, a measure of change in oxygen value is a measure of the glucose value.
a) True
b) False
a
12. For constructing the glucose sensor, which of the following is used as a gel?
a) Urea
b) Urease
c) Acrylamide
d) Polyacrylamide
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Ion Analyser» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Dissolved Oxygen Analyser 
