1. Which of the following steps takes place after injection of feed in Column chromatography?
a) Detection of components
b) Separation in the column
c) Elution from the column
d) Collection of eluted component
b
2. Components with a strong attraction to the support move more slowly than components with weak attraction.
a) True
b) False
a
3. What happens during the ‘elution from the column’ phase in chromatography?
a) Components with greatest affinity elute first
b) Components with least affinity elute first
c) Components elute in a random manner
d) Components elute according to their concentration in the mixture
b
4. In chromatogram, the position of peaks on the time axis can be used to determine which of the following?
a) Components of the sample
b) Amount of component in the sample
c) Column efficiency
d) Column resolution
a
5. In chromatogram, the area under the peak can be used to determine which of the following?
a) Components of the sample
b) Amount of component in the sample
c) Column efficiency
d) Column resolution
b
6. The stationary phase could be a viscous liquid coated over a surface of solid particles.
a) True
b) False
a
7. Given below is a diagram of separation of two components of a mixture in a chromatographic column. From the diagram, infer which component has lesser affinity to the stationary phase.
a) W
b) X
c) Y
d) Z
c
8. Using Chromatogram as detector in Chromatography, a graph is obtained between ____________ and time.
a) Quantity
b) Density
c) Concentration
d) Specific gravity
c
9. In older analytical methods, which of the following methods were used to allow movement of the mobile phase?
a) Pumps
b) Pressure
c) Gravity
d) Blowing air into the column
c
10. Given below is the diagram of ‘Process of chromatographic column’. Identify the unmarked component in the process.
a) Reservoir
b) Collection tank
c) Microprocessor
d) Detector
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Introduction to Chromatography» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Chromatographic Behaviour of Solutes 
