1. In total reflection X-ray fluorescence spectrometer, the specimen is excited by the primary X-ray beam at a grazing angle _______ the critical angle.
a) Greater than
b) Less than
c) Equal to
d) Which is a complement of
b
2. The x-ray beam produced by the primary x-ray tube passes through which of the following components to produce the incident radiation?
a) Detector
b) Slit-collimator arrangement
c) Sample reflector
d) Monochromator
b
3. Which of the following crystals are polished to act as the cut-off reflector?
a) Quartz
b) Beryllium
c) Silicon
d) Lithium
c
4. The suppression of high energy bremsstrahlung radiation improves which of the following?
a) Signal to background ratio
b) Accuracy
c) Sensitivity
d) Coherence
a
5. Which of the following components are used as the sample carrier?
a) Curvette
b) Flask
c) Capillary tube
d) Float glass
d
Join [email protected]
6. Which of the following devices are used as a detector?
a) Thermistor
b) Optical detector
c) Solid state detector
d) Golay cell
c
7. Which of the following happens when a large solid angle is intercepted as the detector is placed close to the sample?
a) Maximum efficiency increases
b) Maximum efficiency decreases
c) Efficiency is not affected
d) Process response becomes fast
a
8. To monitor the primary beam, which of the following is used?
a) Scintillation counter
b) GM counter
c) Gamma counter
d) Proportional counter
b
9. The major problem associated with sample preparation is which of the following?
a) Preparing sample in the right quantity
b) Choosing sample holders
c) Matrix effects
d) Reflection by holders
c
10. Computer-controlled corrective iteration is the only reliable method of matrix effects correction.
a) True
b) False
a
11. In computer-controlled corrective iteration method, which of the following is used to estimate absorption corrections?
a) Initial raw intensity data
b) Elemental composition
c) Amount of sample
d) Amount of radiation
a
12. Total reflection X-ray fluorescence spectrometer is attractive for elements which lack reliable wet chemical methods.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation for Quizzes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – X-Ray Fluorescent Spectrometer» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Electron Probe Microanalyser 
