1. In combination electrode, which of the following electrodes are built together?
a) Primary electrode, secondary reference electrode
b) Primary reference electrode, glass electrode
c) Glass electrode, secondary reference electrode
d) Glass electrode with another glass electrode
c
2. Which of the following reference electrodes are used as internal and external reference electrodes in combination electrodes?
a) Silver/silver chloride electrode
b) Calomel electrode
c) Mercury/mercury sulphate electrode
d) Mercury/mercury chloride electrode
a
3. The reference electrodes in combination electrodes are protected against light using which of the following?
a) Emerald green glass
b) Ruby red glass
c) Sapphire blue glass
d) Pearl white glass
b
4. Combination electrodes containing the electrolyte in gel format have which of the following advantages over normal ones?
a) Simple to use
b) Low maintenance
c) Low cost
d) More accurate
b
5. Which of the following is not the advantage of gel-filled electrodes?
a) Low maintenance
b) Rugged in construction
c) Easy to maintain
d) Does not cause clogging
d
Join [email protected]
6. Good choice for storing combination electrodes is in a buffer solution having which of the following pH?
a) pH1
b) pH2
c) pH3
d) pH4
d
7. The gel used in combination electrodes does not have which of the following characteristic?
a) Non-toxic
b) USP grade
c) Inorganic material
d) Polyacrylamide
c
8. Beckman coulter gel filled combination electrodes provide which of the following features to overcome various problems that occur in gel filled electrodes?
a) Filters
b) Semi-permeable membrane
c) Gas-permeable membrane
d) Micro-pore junction
d
9. In which of the following solutions must combination electrodes be soaked after cleaning?
a) KCl
b) LiCl
c) KNO3
d) K2SO4
a
10. Gel filled combination electrodes operate in a wide temperature range.
a) True
b) False
a
11. In combination electrodes, both the electrodes must be maintained at different temperatures.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Secondary Reference Electrodes» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – pH Meters 
