1. Nitrogen dioxide can be detected with a paramagnetic analyser.
a) True
b) False
a
2. Nitrogen oxide cannot be directly analysed using UV and Visible analyzers due to which of the following reasons?
a) Less accuracy
b) Very low range
c) It leads to contamination of the sample
d) It is transparent in UV visible regions
d
3. How is NO converted to NO2 for analysis in UV and Visible analyzers?
a) Treating sample gas with pressurized oxygen
b) Treating sample gas with ozone
c) Treating sample gas with oxygen at low pressure
d) Treating sample gas with water at high pressure
a
4. How is NO converted to NO2 for analysis in Chemiluminescent analyser?
a) Treating sample gas with pressurized oxygen
b) Treating sample gas with ozone
c) Treating sample gas with oxygen at low pressure
d) Treating sample gas with water at high pressure
b
NO + O3 —>NO2 + O2
5. During analysis of NO2 using Chemiluminescent analyser, why is NO2 not made to react with ozone directly?
a) Less accuracy
b) It is a slow process
c) It leads to contamination of the sample
d) It does not produce luminescence
b
6. The block diagram of series mode analyser of NO and NO2 is given below. Identify the unmarked procedure.
a) Oxidiser
b) Reducer
c) Filter
d) NO Analyser
a
7. The block diagram for parallel mode analyser of NO and NO2 is given below. Identify the unmarked block in the diagram.
a) NO Analyser
b) NO2 to NO reduction
c) NO2 remover
d) Difference
d
8. The instruments based on chemiluminescence maintain linearity in which of the following ranges?
a) 1ppb to 100ppb
b) 100ppb to 1000ppb
c) 1ppb to 1000ppb
d) 100ppb to 1000ppb
c
9. How can absorption be enhanced while determining NO concentration using CO laser?
a) By converting NO into NO2
b) By placing NO in a magnetic field
c) By using proper monochromators
d) By using choppers
b
10. Which of the following detectors are generally used for detection in NO analysis using CO laser?
a) Photomultiplier tube
b) Photovoltaic cell
c) Liquid nitrogen cooled Ge-Au element
d) Photo emissive tube
c
11. Which of the following analyzers are used to measure trace amounts of nitrogen oxides in the stratosphere?
a) Chemiluminescence
b) CO laser method
c) Laser opto-acoustic spectroscopy
d) Colorimetry
c
12. A pink coloured dye complex is formed when air containing NO2 is passed in an absorbing solution consisting of __________ and diamine dissolved in the acetic acid medium.
a) Sulphuric acid
b) Sulphonyl
c) Sulphonic acid
d) Sulphanilic acid
d
13. In Laser Opto-acoustic spectroscopy, the IR beam excites the molecules to higher states. In which of the following ways do the molecules return to the ground state?
a) Collisional de-excitation
b) Random de-excitation
c) By spontaneous emission
d) By stimulated emission
a
14. To monitor oxides of nitrogen in stack effluents, the sample containing oxides of nitrogen is passed through a flask containing solution of H2O2 in sulphuric acid. Nitric acid is formed. The nitrate ions then react with phenol-disulphonic acid to produce blue colour.
a)True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Electrochemical Methods for Oxygen Analysis» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – H2S Analysers 
