1. pH meters can be considered as voltage sources with which of the following internal resistances?
a) Very low resistance
b) Moderate resistance
c) Very high resistance
d) No resistance
c
2. The electrodes used in pH measurement have which of the following internal resistances?
a) Very low resistance
b) Moderate resistance
c) Very high resistance
d) No resistance
c
3. Which of the following is not a failure in pH meters?
a) Defective electrodes
b) Defective input circuitry
c) Defective electronic circuitry
d) Defective calibration
d
4. Which of the following is the simplest of pH meters?
a) Null-detector type pH meter
b) Direct reading type pH meter
c) Digital pH meter
d) Modern pH meter
a
5. In which of the following ways can zero drift be reduced in pH meters?
a) Using filter
b) Giving zero adjustment arrangement
c) Keeping the input impedance high
d) Using balanced and differential amplifiers
d
6. Which of the following can be used to provide automatic temperature compensation?
a) Proper insulation
b) Calibration for different temperatures
c) Thermistor
d) Thermometer
c
7. Which of the following is not the characteristic of null-detector type pH meter?
a) It can be battery operated
b) It has less accuracy
c) It is easy to maintain
d) Its electronic circuits are simple
b
8. Which of the following is not the characteristic of direct reading type pH meters?
a) Simple operation
b) Quick to use
c) Continuous indication output
d) It requires balancing process
d
9. Which of the following is not the characteristic of chopper amplifier pH meter?
a) Direct voltage from the electrodes is chopped at the main frequency
b) Using choppers for high-input resistance gives rise to spikes of waveforms at the output
c) It leads to stability in DC output of phase-sensitive rectifier
d) Magnitude of surge increases in the glass electrode output
c
10. In which of the following ways can the disadvantages of chopper amplifier type pH meter be overcome?
a) Using zero corrected DC amplifier
b) Using modern design
c) Using digital design
d) Using vibrating condenser
d
11. The zero stability of vibrating condenser amplifier type pH meter is much better than a direct coupled amplifier.
a) True
b) False
a
12. In vibrating condenser amplifier type pH meter, to maintain good performance which of the following has to be done?
a) Frequency of the vibrator should be stable
b) Frequency of the vibrator should be constant
c) Amplitude of the vibrator should be constant
d) Both frequency and amplitude of the vibrator should be constant and stable
d
13. If an instrument fails to balance at zero, it is most likely that the electrodes are defective.
a) True
b) False
b
14. Given below is the block diagram of digital pH meter. Identify the unmarked component.
a) Filter
b) Buffer
c) A/D converter
d) D/A converter
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Combination Electrode» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Ion Selective Electrodes-Principle and Types 
