1. If a solid or liquid membrane is placed in pure water, the membrane dissolves slightly, producing an equilibrium concentration of the measured ion. This is represented as __________
a) A constant, Eo
b) Activity
c) Blank correction, Cb
d) Concentration of standard solution, Cs
c
2. During which of the following conditions is the blank correction not necessary?
a) If sample concentration rises in linear response region
b) If sample concentration falls in linear response region
c) If sample concentration rises in non-linear response region
d) If sample concentration falls in non-linear response region
b
3. During which of the following conditions is the blank correction necessary?
a) If sample concentration rises in linear response region
b) If sample concentration falls in linear response region
c) If sample concentration rises in non-linear response region
d) If sample concentration falls in non-linear response region
d
4. Ion analysers need calibration once in which of the following durations?
a) Every two or three hours
b) Every nine or ten hours
c) Every 24 hours
d) Every 48 hours
a
5. In ion analysers, which of the following serve the dual purpose of controlling the operating current of FET and providing current gain?
a) FET itself does it
b) SCR
c) Op-amp
d) Diode
c
6. The presence of dirt or moisture degrades which of the following?
a) Circuit components
b) High input impedance of buffer amplifier
c) Low input impedance of buffer amplifier
d) Low output impedance of buffer amplifier
b
7. Which of the following is not a type of ground in ion analyser?
a) Chassis and electrostatic ground
b) Digital ground
c) Analog ground
d) Reference ground
d
8. The timing for a microprocessor and for all signals is generated by the CPU clock.
a) True
b) False
a
9. Which of the following is the only operator entry required in PC-based ion analysers?
a) Hardware set-up
b) Signal measurement
c) Calibration
d) Sample calculation
c
10. The analog and digital grounds are connected together in ion analysers.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Special Designs of Ion Selective Electrodes» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Biosensors 
