1. Which of the following is not the characteristic of a reference electrode?
a) It must have a known output potential
b) It must have a constant output potential
c) Its output potential is dependent on the composition of the solution
d) It is employed in conjunction with the indicator or working electrode
c
2. Why is Standard hydrogen electrode called as the primary reference electrode?
a) It has a known output potential
b) It has a constant output potential
c) Its output potential is independent of the composition of the solution
d) Its output potential is zero volts
d
3. Which of the following is the simple and most convenient hydrogen electrode?
a) Pascal Hydrogen electrode
b) Bourne Hydrogen electrode
c) Hilderbant Hydrogen electrode
d) West Hydrogen electrode
c
4. Which of the following is not the disadvantage of hydrogen electrode?
a) Platinum can be easily poisoned
b) Presence of oxidising agents alters the potential
c) It gives a salt error
d) H2 gas at 1 atmospheric pressure is difficult to set up and transport
c
5. In Hydrogen electrode, the electrode is placed in a solution of ____ M Hcl. Fill in the blank.
a) 0.5
b) 1
c) 2
d) 3
b
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Hydrogen electrode which is the reference electrode can be used as which of the following?
a) Anode only
b) Cathode only
c) Anode or Cathode
d) Salt bridge
c
7. If hydrogen electrode acts as cathode, hydrogen is reduced.
a) True
b) False
a
8. Given below is a diagram of hydrogen electrode. Identify the unmarked component.
a) Hydrogen at 1 atm
b) Hydrogen at 10 atm
c) Helium at 1 atm
d) Helium at 10 atm
a
9. The composition of glass membrane in glass electrode cannot have which of the following?
a) Sodium silicate
b) Calcium silicate
c) Lithium silicate
d) Barium silicate
d
10. Which of the following is the purpose of added membranes in the glass membrane of the glass electrode?
a) They act as tightners
b) They act as filters
c) They act as conditioners
d) They act as collectors
a
11. Which of the following cannot form the inner reference electrode in glass electrodes?
a) Silver electrode
b) Copper electrode
c) Calomel electrode
d) Silver chloride electrode
b
12. The pH response of glass electrode is limited entirely to the area of the special glass membrane bulb.
a) True
b) False
a
13. Which of the following is not the advantage of glass electrodes?
a) It gives accurate results for high as well as low pH values
b) It is simple to operate
c) It has no salt error
d) Modern electrodes can withstand severe treatment
a
14. Which of the following is not the disadvantage of glass electrodes?
a) Poor readings are obtained in buffered or unbuffered solutions
b) The electrode must be washed thoroughly with distilled water to obtain proper results
c) Materials suspended on glass should be wiped out neatly to obtain proper results
d) It is affected by oxidation reduction potentials in the solution
d
15. Given below is the diagram of glass electrode. Identify the unmarked component.
a) Platinum leads
b) Silver wire coated with silver chloride
c) Copper wire
d) Platinum reference electrode
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – pH Measurement and Types» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Secondary Reference Electrodes 
