1. Which of the following methods cannot be used for the estimation of hydrocarbons?
a) Mass spectroscopy
b) Chemiluminescence method
c) Ultraviolet absorption
d) Gas chromatography
b
2. Which of the following is the most abundant hydrocarbon which is emitted into the atmosphere by biological activity?
a) Ethane
b) Methane
c) Poly Aromatic hydrocarbons
d) Pentane
b
3. Flame ionization detectors are sensitive to which of the following gases?
a) Carbon dioxide
b) Methane
c) Carbon monoxide
d) Sulphur dioxide
b
4. How can carbon monoxide be detected using flame ionization detectors while using gas chromatography technique?
a) By converting it into carbon dioxide
b) By converting it into methane
c) By mixing it with combustible gases
d) It cannot be detected
b
5. Which of the following organic compounds will have the highest intensity of response when introduced in a flame ionization detector?
a) Methane
b) Ethane
c) Propane
d) Butane
d
Join [email protected]
6. Propane would give three times the intensity of response as compared to methane.
a) True
b) False
a
7. In flame ionization detectors, which of the following is the range adequate for atmospheric sampling?
a) 0-1 ppm
b) 0-2 ppm
c) 0-20 ppm
d) 0-100 ppm
c
8. Which of the following methods make use of pyrolysis while used for detecting methane?
a) Mass spectroscopy
b) Flame ionization detector
c) Ultraviolet absorption
d) Gas chromatography
b
9. In flame ionization detector, the ions collected on the negatively charged grid are amplified at the high impedance amplifier.
a) True
b) False
b
10. Which of the following is not the characteristic of flame ionization detector?
a) Good linearity
b) Narrow range of concentration
c) High sensitivity
d) Fast response
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Estimation of Carbon Monoxide» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – pH Measurement and Types 
