1. Which of the following is not a feature of quadrupole mass spectrometer?
a) Low cost
b) Light weight
c) Low speed electronic scanning
d) Simple in construction
c
2. Which of the following is not a component of quadrupole mass filter?
a) Electrodes
b) Choke
c) DC potential
d) Detector
d
3. The mass selection scheme uses a dc potential and not a radio frequency potential.
a) True
b) False
b
4. If to one pair of electrodes one potential with one sign is applied, which of the following is applied to the other pair of electrodes?
a) Same potential with same sign
b) Different potential with same sign
c) Different potential with different sign
d) Same potential with different sign
d
5. Which of the following is the heart of quadrupole instrument?
a) Electrodes
b) Choke
c) DC potential
d) Detector
a
6. Which of the following has to be done to increase the resolution of the quadrupole mass spectrometer?
a) Increasing distance between detector and reflectron
b) Increasing difference between the individual rf accelerating stages
c) Increasing the length of the drift tube
d) Increasing the rod length of the electrode
d
7. Which of the following does not affect the resolution of the instrument?
a) Changing length of electrode
b) Changing slope of scan line
c) Quality of machining of the rods
d) Changing length of drift tube
d
8. In cases where differentiation is required between very similar substances, which of the following techniques making use of quadrupole principle is preferred?
a) Evaporation mass spectrometry
b) Pyrolysis mass spectrometry
c) Plasma mass spectrometry
d) Trapped ion mass spectrometry
b
9. In pyrolysis spectrometry, heating is done until which of the following is reached?
a) Curie point
b) Boiling point
c) Until production of superheated vapour
d) Until 100oC
a
10. Which of the following is used to cool the ion source?
a) Liquid sodium shield
b) Liquid nitrogen shield
c) Water
d) Freon
b
11. In quadrupole mass spectrometer, the ratio u/v is mass dependent, where ‘u’ is the DC voltage and ‘v’ is the peak amplitude.
a) True
b) False
b
12. When a value of q is kept constant, the value of m/e is proportional to which of the following when ‘m’ is the mass number, ‘e’ is the electric charge, ‘u’ is the DC potential, ‘v’ is the peak amplitude and ‘f’ is the frequency?
a) u/v ratio
b) u
c) v
d) f
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analytical Instrumentation.
To practice all areas of Analytical Instrumentation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Radiofrequency Mass Spectrometer» Next - Analytical Instrumentation Questions and Answers – Ion Transducers 
