1.  A beam section is provided on the basis of
     (i) section modulus, (ii) deflection, (iii) shear
a) i, ii
b) ii, iii
c) i, iii
d) i, ii and iii
d
2. Which of the following is not correct?
a) Angles and T section are strong in bending
b) Channels can be used only for light loads
c) I sections are most efficient and economical shapes
d) I section with cover plates are provided when large section modulus is required
a
3. Local buckling can be prevented by
a) limiting width-thickness ratio
b) increasing width-thickness ratio
c) changing material
d) changing load on member
c
4. Which of the following is true?
a) in case of rolled section, less thickness of plate is adopted to prevent local buckling
b) for built-up section and cold formed section, longitudinal stiffeners are not provided to reduce width to smaller sizes
c) local buckling cannot be prevented by limiting width-thickness ratio
d) in case of rolled section, high thickness of plate is adopted to prevent local buckling
d
5. Which of the following is not true?
a) only plastic section can be used in intermediate frames
b) slender sections are preferred in hot rolled structural steelwork
c) compact sections can be used in simply supported beams
d) semi-compact sections can be used for elastic designs
b
6. As per IS specification, the beam sections should be
a) not symmetrical about any principal axes
b) at least symmetrical about one of the principal axes
c) symmetrical about all principal axes
d) unsymmetrical about all principal axes
b
7. Which of the following is the design criteria for beams?
      (i) Strength in bending   (ii) stiffness  (iii)economy
a) ii only
b) i and iii
c) ii and iii
d) i, ii and iii
d
8. Which of the following is not true?
a) for optimum bending resistance, beam material should be near neutral axis
b) for optimum bending resistance, beam material should be far away from neutral axis
c) for optimum bending resistance, web area of beam has to be adequate for resisting shear
d) maximum bending and maximum shear usually occur at different cross section
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Steel Structures.
To practice all areas of Design of Steel Structures, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Introduction to Beams» Next - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Lateral Stability of Beams 
