1. The slenderness ratio of each member when placed back-to-back or separated by small distance shall be
a) greater than 40
b) not greater than 40
c) 0.8 times the slenderness ratio of column as a whole
d) greater than 50
b
2. Minimum number of bolts for connecting end of strut is
a) 0
b) 3
c) 1
d) 2
d
3. Which of the following is true?
a) when there is small spacing between the two sections placed  back-to-back, washers and packing should be provided
b) when there is small spacing between the two sections placed  back-to-back, washers and packing should not be provided
c) there should be additional connection in between along the length of member
d) when leg of angles greater than 125mm wide or web of channel is mm wide, minimum  bolt is sufficient for connection
a
4. Minimum diameter of bolt when member is less than 16mm thick is
a) 8
b) 10
c) 22
d) 20
c
Join [email protected]
5. Which of the following is not true?
a) spacing of tack bolt should be less than 600mm
b) spacing of tack bolt should be greater than 600mm
c) if bolts are used, they should be spaced longitudinally at less than 4 times the bolt diameter
d) connection should extend at least 1.5 times the width of the member
b
6. Members connected back-to-back connected by bolts should be
a) not be used
b) subjected to transverse loading in plane perpendicular to bolted surface
c) subjected to twice the transverse loading in plane perpendicular to bolted surface
d)  not subjected to transverse loading in plane perpendicular to bolted surface
d
7. For members placed back-to-back, the spacing of bolt should not exceed
a) 12t
b) 16t
c) 18t
d) 20t
a
8. Longitudinal spacing between intermittent welds used for connection should be
a) greater than 18t
b) greater than 16t
c) not greater than 16t
d) equal to 18t
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Steel Structures.
To practice all areas of Design of Steel Structures, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Battens» Next - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Design of Compression Members – I 
