1. A column that can support same load in compression as it can in tension is called
a) intermediate column
b) long column
c) short column
d) cannot be determined
c
2. The strength of compression members subjected to axial compression is defined by curves corresponding to _______ classes
a) a, b, c and d
b) a, d
c) b, e, f
d) e, f, g
a
3. Which of the following is not a compression member?
a) strut
b) boom
c) tie
d) rafter
c
4. The best compression member section generally used is
a) single angle section
b) I-section
c) double angle section
d) channel section
b
5. The best double-angle compression member section is
a) unequal angles with short leg connected
b) unequal angles with long leg connected
c) unequal angles on opposite side of gusset plate
d) unequal angles on same side of gusset plate
a
6. The flange is classified as semi-compact if outstand element of compression flange of  rolled section is less than
a) 8.4ε
b) 10.5ε
c) 15.7ε
d) 9.4ε
c
7. The flange is classified as plastic if outstand element of compression flange of  rolled section is less than
a) 8.4ε
b) 9.4ε
c) 10.5ε
d) 15.7ε
b
8. The outstand element of compression flange of a rolled section is 10.2 (ε=1). The flange will be classified as
a) compact
b) plastic
c) semi-compact
d) slender
a
9.  The design compressive stress of compression member in IS 800 is given by
a) Rankine Formula
b) Euler Formula
c) Perry-Robertson formula
d) Secant-Rankine formula
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Steel Structures.
To practice all areas of Design of Steel Structures, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Back-to-Back Connection» Next - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Design of Compression Members – II 
