1. Which of the following parameters control the quality of weld?
a) composition of electrode
b) size of electrode
c) size of metal plate
d) composition of metal plate
b
2. Why is electrode coated with a flux in shielded metal arc welding?
a) for shiny appearance of electrode
b) to make welding faster
c) to increase the melting of electrode
d) to protect the electrode
d
3. Which of the following can be non-low hydrogen process?
a) Shielded metal arc welding
b) Submerged arc welding
c) Gas-shielded metal arc welding
d) Flux core arc welding
a
4. Why hydrogen not used excessively for welding?
a) increases welding rate
b) decreases welding rate
c) destroys the metal plate
d) affects the weld
d
5. Which of the following is true about shielded metal arc welding?
a) equipment cost is high
b) cannot weld different types of  metals
c) cannot be used for metal sheets under 1.5mm thickness
d) entire electrode can be used
c
6. Which of the following is not correct about submerged arc welding?
a) high deposition rate
b) short set-up time
c) high quality welds
d) slag removal needed
b
7. Choose the correct option regarding metal-active gas welding?
a) not suitable for thin metal sheets
b) need to stop welding to change the consumed electrode
c) equipment is not expensive
d) high deposition rate
d
8. What is the differentiating factor between flux core arc welding and gas-shielded metal arc welding processes?
a) structure and chemical composition of electrode
b) structure and chemical composition of metal plate
c) time of welding
d) process of welding
a
9. Which of the following is true about flux core arc welding?
a) low deposition rate
b) cannot weld narrow angles
c) slag removal required
d) generates less volume of fumes and smoke.
c
10. Which of the following welding process is preferred for field application?
a) Shielded metal arc welding
b) Submerged arc welding
c) Gas-shielded metal arc welding
d) Flux core arc welding
a
11. Which of the following is not correct about electro slag welding?
a) high deposition rates
b) welds flat or vertical joints only
c) multiple electrodes may not be used
d) complicated set-up
c
12. Which of the following process does not have high deposition rate?
a) Shielded metal arc welding
b) Electro Slag welding
c) Gas-shielded metal arc welding
d) Flux core arc welding
a
13. Match the pairs
 	Welding Process 				Suitable Position of welding
A) Submerged arc welding			(i)  suitable for overhead works at site
B) Gas-shielded metal arc welding		(ii) not suitable for overhead positions
C) Shielded metal arc welding			(iii) can be used in all positions
a) A-i, B-ii, C-iii
b) A-iii, B-ii, C-i
c) A-ii, B-iii, C-i
d) A-ii, B-i, C-iii
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Steel Structures.
To practice all areas of Design of Steel Structures, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Beam and Column Splices» Next - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Types and Properties of Welding 
