1. What are steel tension members?
a) Structural elements that are subjected to direct compressive loads
b) Structural elements that are subjected to direct tensile loads
c) Structural elements that are subjected to indirect compressive loads
d) Structural elements that are subjected to indirect tensile loads
b
2. The strength of tensile members is not influenced by :
a) length of connection
b) net area of cross section
c) type of fabrication
d) length of plate
d
3. Which of the following statement is correct?
a) single angle section with bolted connection produce eccentricity about both planes
b) single angle section with bolted connection produce eccentricity about one plane only
c) single angle section with welded connection produce eccentricity about both planes
d) single angle section with welded connection does not produce eccentricity about one plane
a
4. Which of the following statement is correct?
a) Single angle members are used where members are subjected to reversal of stresses
b) Double angle members are used in towers
c) Single angle members are used as web members in trusses
d) Double angle members are used as web members in trusses
c
5. What is the difference between strand and wire rope?
a) Strand consists of individual wires wound helically around a central core, wire rope is made of several strand laid helically around a core
b) Wire rope consists of individual wires wound helically around a central core, strand is made of several wire ropes laid helically around a core
c) Strand consists of individual wires wound straight around a central core, wire rope is made of several strand laid helically around a core
d) Wire rope consists of individual wires wound straight around a central core, strand is made of several wire ropes laid helically around a core
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Which of the following statement is not correct?
a) Cables in form of wires ropes and strands are used in application where high strength is required
b) Cables are generally long and their flexural rigidity is negligible
c) They are flexible
d) They are recommended in bracing systems
d
7. Bars and rods are not used as :
a) tension members in bracing systems
b) friction resistant members
c) sag rods to support purlin
d) to support girts in industrial buildings
b
8. Sagging of members by built up bars and rods may be minimised by
a) increasing length diameter
b) increasing thickness ratio
c) fabricating rod/bar short of its required theoretical length
d) fabricating rod/bar more than its required theoretical length
c
9. Which of the following type of tension member is not mainly used in modern practice?
a) open section such as angles
b) flat bars
c) double angles
d) circular section
b
10. Which among the following comparison between angle and flat bars is not true?
a) for light loads, angles are preferred over flat bars
b) flat bar tension members tend to vibrate during passage of load in light bridges
c) flat bars are used instead of angles in case of stress reversal
d) angles are used instead of flat bars in case of stress reversal
c
11. Which of the following statement is correct?
a) angles placed on same side of gusset plate produce eccentricity about one plane only
b) angles placed on same side of gusset plate produce eccentricity about two planes
c) angles placed on opposite side of gusset plate produce eccentricity about one plane only
d) angles placed on opposite side of gusset plate produce eccentricity about two planes
a
12. Which of the following is true about built up section?
a) Built up members are less rigid than single rolled section
b) Single rolled section are formed to meet required area which cannot be provided by built up members
c) Built up members can be made sufficiently stiff
d) Built up sections are not desirable when stress reversal occurs
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Steel Structures.
To practice all areas of Design of Steel Structures, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Design of Welds» Next - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Modes of Failure, Slenderness Ratio and displacement 
