1. Which of the following is the reason for beams, plate girders and columns being spliced?
a) full length is available from the mill
b) for easy transportation
c) for aesthetic appearance
d) for frictional resistance
b
2. Which of the following is correct regarding splice plates used for beam splices?
a) plates on the flange should be designed to do the work of the web and plates on the web should be designed to do the work of the flange
b) plates on the flange should be designed to do the work of the web and plates on the web should be designed to do the work of the web
c) plates on the flange should be designed to do the work of the flange and plates on the web should be designed to do the work of the flange
d) plates on the flange should be designed to do the work of the flange and plates on the web should be designed to do the work of the web
d
3. According to IS code, strength of spliced portion ________  of the effective strength of material spliced.
a)  should not be less than 50%
b) should be less than 50%
c) should not be less than 80%
d) should be less than 80%
a
4. Choose the correct option from the following regarding basic forms of beam splices.
a) Flush end plates are used when bending moments to be resisted are high
b) Extended end plates are used when bending moments to be resisted are not high
c) Flush end plates are used when bending moments to be resisted are modest
d) Extended end plates are used when torsional moments to be resisted are not high
c
5. When are longitudinal stiffeners introduced to beam splices?
a) when change in size between two sections of beam occurs
b) when change in size between two sections of beam does not occur
c) when change in moment between two sections of beam occurs
d) when change in moment between two sections of beam does not occur
a
6. In direct end bearing arrangement for column splices,
a) load is transferred through splices
b) splices are designed only to resist accidental tension
c) bending moment is transferred through splices
d) splices are designed only to resist bending moment
b
7. Which of the following is true regarding arrangement of leaving a gap between the ends for column splices?
a) load is transferred through splices
b) splices are designed only to resist accidental tension
c) load is transferred through contact area
d) splices are designed only to resist bending moment
a
8. Which of the following is true when end plate splices is used for columns?
a) Short end plates are used for heavy moments
b) Extended end plates are used for moderate moments
c) Short end plates are used for moderate moments
d) Short end plates and extended end plates are used for moderate moments
c
9. Position of splices should be _____ in normal practice.
a) at mid height of columns
b) at three fourth height of column from bottom of column
c) at three fourth height of column from top of column
d) just above the floor level
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Steel Structures.
To practice all areas of Design of Steel Structures, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Moment Resistant & Beam-to-Beam Connections» Next - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Welding Process 
