1. Which of the following does not affect lateral stability?
a) cross sectional shape
b) support conditions
c) type of loading
d) height of building
d
2. Which of the following statement is correct?
a) I-section has high torsional stiffness
b) Closed section has high torsional stiffness
c) Closed section has less stiffness
d) Hollow circular tube has more efficiency as flexural member
b
3. Which of the following statement is  not correct?
a) Hollow circular tube has more efficiency as flexural member
b) Hollow circular tube has lesser efficiency as flexural member
c) It is the most efficient shape for torsional resistance
d) It us rarely used as a beam element
a
4. Open cross sections have major part of material distributed
a) is not distributed
b) on the centroid
c) towards centroid
d) away from centroid
d
5. The effective length factor is _____ for beams flanges fully restrained
a) 1
b) 0.5
c) 0.75
d) 1.5
b
6. The effective length of compression flange of simply supported beam not restrained against torsion at ends is
a) 1.2 L
b) 1.0 L
c) 0.8 L
d) 0.5 L
a
7. Effective length of compression flanges at the ends unrestrained against lateral buckling is
a) 1.5 L
b) 0.85 L
c) 0.5 L
d) L
d
8. Effective length of compression flanges at the ends partially restrained against lateral buckling is
a) 1.75 L
b) 1.0 L
c) 0.85 L
d) 0.5 L
c
9. Restraint against torsion can be provided by
  (i) web cleats, (ii) bearing stiffeners acting together with bearing of beam, (iii)lateral end frames to ends of compression flanges
a) i only
b) i and ii
c) ii and iii
d) i, ii and iii
d
10. The most severe loading condition for cantilever is
a) point load acting at centre
b) point load acting at tip
c) point load acting between centre and fixed end
d) point load acting at L/4 distance
b
11. Provision of intermediate lateral supports ______ lateral stability of beam
a) increases
b) decreases
c) does not change
d) cannot say
a
12. The requirement of effective bracing is
a) it should not have sufficient strength not to withstand forces transferred to it by beam
b) it should not have sufficient strength to withstand forces transferred to it by beam
c) it should have sufficient stiffness so that buckling of beam occurs in between braces
d) it should not have sufficient stiffness so that buckling of beam occurs in between braces
c
13. Which of the following is correct?
a) torsional bracing attached near bottom flange should bend in single curvature
b) torsional bracing attached near bottom flange should not bend in single curvature
c) its flexural stiffness should be 4EIb/S
d) its flexural stiffness should be 6EIb/S
a
14. The lateral stability of tranversely loaded beam is dependent on
a) arrangement of load only
b) level of application of load only
c) both arrangement and level of application of load
d) is not dependent on any of these
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Steel Structures.
To practice all areas of Design of Steel Structures, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Lateral Torsional Buckling» Next - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Behaviour of Real Beam 
