1. What is beam?
a) structural member subjected to transverse loads
b) structural member subjected to axial loads only
c) structural member subjected to seismic loads only
d) structural member subjected to transverse loads only
a
2. Structural members subjected to bending and large axial compressive loads are known as
a) strut
b) purlin
c) beam-column
d) lintel
c
3. What is girt?
a) vertical beam spanning between wall column of industrial buildings
b) horizontal beam spanning between wall column of industrial buildings
c) vertical beam spanning between wall column of residential buildings
d) horizontal beam spanning between wall column of residential buildings
b
4. Members used to carry wall loads over wall openings are called
a) purlin
b) rafter
c) girder
d) lintels
d
5. Load transfer by a beam is primarily by
a) bending only
b) shear only
c) bending and shear
d) neither bending nor shear
c
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. What are spandrels?
a) exterior beams at floor level of buildings
b) interior beams at floor level of buildings
c) exterior columns
d) interior columns
a
7. Members used in bridges parallel to traffic are called
a) spandrel
b) stringers
c) purlin
d) joist
b
8. Match the pair
	     I 			        II
	(A) joist		(i) tension member in roof truss
	(B) girder		(ii) member supporting purlin
	(C) tie			(iii) member supporting roof in a building
	(D) rafter		(iv) major floor beam in building
a) A-i, B-ii, C-iii, D-iv
b) A-iv, B-iii, C-ii, D-i
c) A-ii, B-iv, C-iii, D-i
d) A-iii, B-iv, C-i, D-ii
d
9. Which of the following statement is correct?
a) beams are termed as fixed beams when end condition do not carry end moments
b) beams are termed as simply supported beams when ends are rigidly connected to other members
c) beams are termed as fixed beams when ends are rigidly connected to other members
d) beams are termed as continuous beams when they do not extend across more than two support
c
10. Complex stresses may occur when
a) loads are inclined to principal axes
b) loads are along principal axes
c) symmetrical section are used
d) small values of shear and bending moment occur at section
a
11. Simple bending takes place if
a) loading passes above shear centre for single symmetric open section
b) loading passes below shear centre for single symmetric open section
c) loading plane coincides with one of the principal planes of doubly symmetric section
d) loading plane do not coincide with one of the principal planes of doubly symmetric section
c
12. Which of the following buckling does not occur in beam?
a) lateral buckling of whole beam
b) local buckling of web
c) local buckling of flanges
d) longitudinal buckling of web
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Steel Structures.
To practice all areas of Design of Steel Structures, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Design of Compression Members – II» Next - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Beam Types and Sections 
