1. Which of the following assumptions is correct for plastic design?
a) material obeys Hooke’s law before the stress reaches fy
b) yield stress and modulus of elasticity does not have same value in compression and tension
c) material is homogenous and isotropic in both elastic and plastic states.
d) material is not sufficiently ductile to permit large rotations
c
2. Which of the following assumptions is not correct for plastic design?
a) plastic hinge rotations are small compared with elastic deformations so all the rotations are concentrated at plastic hinges
b) segments between plastic hinges are rigid
c) influence of normal and shear forces on plastic moments is not considered
d) plane section remains plane after bending and the effect of shear is neglected
a
3. Which of the following are the conditions that stress strain characteristics of steel should obey to ensure plastic moment redistribution?
a) yield plateau should be less than 6 times the yield strain
b) ratio of ultimate tensile stress to yield stress should be less than 1.2
c) steel should not exhibit strain-hardening capacity
d) elongation on standard gauge length should be more than 15%
d
4. Which of the following conditions are true for using plastic method of analysis as per IS 800?
a) members shall not be hot-rolled or fabricated using hot-plates
b) yield stress of steel should not be greater than 450MPa
c) cross section should be unsymmetrical about its axis perpendicular to axis of plastic hinge rotation
d) cross section of members not containing plastic hinges should be ‘plastic’ and those members containing plastic hinges should be ‘compact’
b
5. Which of the following is true regarding plastic design methods?
a) design needs to satisfy elastic strain compatibility conditions
b) different factor of safety for all parts of the structure
c) saving of material over elastic methods resulting in lighter structures
d) design is effected by temperature changes, settlement of support, etc
c
6. Which of the following is true regarding plastic design methods?
a) difficult to design for fatigue
b) more saving in column design
c) lateral bracing requirements are less stringent than for elastic design
d) moments produced by different loading conditions can be added together
a
7. What is plastic hinge?
a) zone of bending due to flexure in a structural member
b) zone of yielding due to flexure in a structural member
c) zone of non-yielding due to flexure in a structural member
d) zone of yielding due to twisting in a structural member
b
8. Plastic hinge behaves like a ______
a) friction mechanical hinge except that there is always a fixed moment constraint
b) frictionless mechanical hinge except that there is no fixed moment constraint
c) friction mechanical hinge except that there is no fixed moment constraint
d) frictionless mechanical hinge except that there is always a fixed moment constraint
d
9. Which of the following is true about hinged length?
a) value of moment adjacent to yield zone is more than yield moment up to hinged length of structural member
b) value of moment adjacent to yield zone is less than yield moment up to hinged length of structural member
c) value of moment adjacent to yield zone is half the yield moment up to hinged length of structural member
d) value of moment adjacent to yield zone is equal to yield moment up to hinged length of structural member
a
10. Hinged length depends upon
a) weight of member
b) type of connection
c) type of loading
d) number of bolts used in connection
c
11. What is the hinged length for simply supported rectangular beam of span L with central concentrated load?
a) L/√2
b) 2L
c) L/2
d) L/3
d
12. What is the hinged length for simply supported rectangular beam  of span L with uniformly distributed load?
a) L/√3
b) L/√2
c) L/2
d) L/5
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Steel Structures.
To practice MCQs on all areas of Design of Steel Structures, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Plastic Theory» Next - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Plastic-Collapse Load 
