1. What is slenderness ratio of a tension member?
a) ratio of its least radius of gyration to its unsupported length
b) ratio of its unsupported length to its least radius of gyration
c) ratio of its maximum radius of gyration to its unsupported length
d) ratio of its unsupported length to its maximum radius of gyration
b
2. What is the maximum effective slenderness ratio for a tension member in which stress reversal occurs?
a) 180
b) 200
c) 280
d) 300
a
3. What is the maximum effective slenderness ratio for a member subjected to compressive forces resulting only from combination of wind/earthquake actions?
a) 180
b) 200
c) 340
d) 250
d
4. What is the maximum effective slenderness ratio for a member normally acting as a tie in roof truss or a bracing member?
a) 180
b) 200
c) 350
d) 400
c
5. What is the maximum effective slenderness ratio for members always in tension?
a) 400
b) 200
c) 350
d) 150
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. The limits specified for slenderness ratio are not
a) applicable to cables
b) applicable to angle sections
c) applicable to built-up sections
d) applicable to circular sections
a
7. The displacement of tension member under service load is given by
a) PLEAg
b) PLE/Ag
c) PL/EAg
d) P/LEAg
c
8. What is gross section yielding?
a) considerable deformation of the member in longitudinal direction may take place before it fractures, making the structure unserviceable
b) considerable deformation of the member in longitudinal direction may take place before it fractures, making the structure serviceable
c) considerable deformation of the member in lateral direction may take place before it fractures, making the structure unserviceable
d) considerable deformation of the member in lateral direction may take place before it fractures, making the structure serviceable
a
9. What is net section rupture failure?
a) rupture of member when the cross section reaches yield stress
b) rupture of member when the cross section reaches ultimate stress
c) rupture of member when the cross section reaches less value than yield stress
d) rupture of member when the cross section is reaches  very less value than ultimate stress
b
10. The tensile stress adjacent to hole will be ____________
a) about five times the average stress on the net area
b) about half the average stress on the net area
c) equal to average stress on the net area
d) about two to three times the average stress on the net area
d
11. What is stress concentration factor?
a) ratio of average stress to maximum elastic stress
b) product of average stress and maximum elastic stress
c) ratio of maximum elastic stress to average stress
d) twice the average stress
c
12. What is block shear failure?
a) failure of fasteners occurs along path involving tension on one plane and shear on perpendicular plane along fasteners
b) failure of member occurs along path involving tension on one plane and shear on perpendicular plane along fasteners
c) failure of member occurs along path involving tension on one plane and shear on parallel plane along fasteners
d) failure of fasteners occurs along path involving tension on one plane and shear on parallel plane along fasteners
b
13. The possibility of block shear failure increases by
a) larger connection length
b) increasing the number of bolts per connection
c) with use of low strength bolts
d) with use of high bearing strength material
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Steel Structures.
To practice all areas of Design of Steel Structures for Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Tension Members and their Types» Next - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Behavior and Design Strength of Tension Members 
