1.  What is compression member?
a) structural member subjected to tensile force
b) structural member subjected to compressive force
c) structural member subjected to bending moment
d) structural member subjected to torsion
b
2. Which of the following is true about axially loaded column?
a) member subjected to bending moment
b) member subjected to axial force and bending moment
c) net end moments are not zero
d) net end moments are zero
d
3. Which of the following is true about beam column?
a) member subjected to bending moment
b) member subjected to axial force only
c) member subjected to axial force and bending moment
d) net end moments are zero
c
4. What are columns?
a) vertical compression members in a building supporting floors or girders
b) vertical tension members in a building supporting floors or girders
c) horizontal compression members in a building supporting floors or girders
d) horizontal tension members in a building supporting floors or girders
a
5. Which of the following are true about roof trusses?
a)  principal rafter are compression members used in buildings
b) principal rafter is bottom chord member of roof truss
c) struts are compression members used in roof trusses
d) struts are tension members used in roof trusses
c
6. Knee braces are __________
a) long compression members
b) short compression members
c) long tension members
d) short tension members
b
7. Which of the following is not a load on columns in buildings?
a) load from floors
b) load from foundation
c) load from roofs
d) load from walls
b
8. Which of the following is correct?
a) moment due to wind loads is not considered in unbraced buildings
b) wind load cause large moments in braced buildings
c) wind loads in multi-storey buildings are not usually applied at respective floor levels
d) wind loads in multi-storey buildings are usually applied at respective floor levels
d
9. What are loads on columns in industrial buildings?
a) wind load only
b) crane load only
c) wind and crane load
d) load from foundation
c
10. The strength of column does not depend on
a) width of building
b) material of column
c) cross sectional configuration
d) length of column
a
11. Which of the following is not an imperfection in column?
a) material not being isotropic
b) geometric variations of columns
c) material being homogenous
d) eccentricity of load
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Steel Structures.
To practice Design of Steel Structures Question Bank, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Behaviour and Ultimate Strength of Plates and Possible Failure Modes» Next - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Behaviour of Compression Members & Types of Sections 
