1. What is the condition for equilibrium in plastic analysis?
a) bending moment distribution defined by assumed plastic hinges must not be in static equilibrium with applied loads and reactions
b) shear force distribution defined by assumed plastic hinges must be in static equilibrium with applied loads and reactions
c) bending moment distribution defined by assumed plastic hinges must be in static equilibrium with applied loads and reactions
d) shear force distribution defined by assumed plastic hinges must not be in static equilibrium with applied loads and reactions
c
2. Which of the following is true?
a) ultimate load is reached when a mechanism is formed
b) ultimate load is not reached when a mechanism is formed
c) plastic hinges are not required for beam to form a mechanism
d) frictionless hinges are not required for beam to form a mechanism
a
3. Which of the following relation is correct?
a) -Mp ≥ M
b) M > Mp
c) M ≥ Mp
d) M ≤ Mp
d
4. Lowest plastic limit load is obtained when _____
a) only equilibrium condition of plastic analysis is satisfied
b) only equilibrium and mechanism condition of plastic analysis are satisfied
c) only mechanism condition of plastic analysis is satisfied
d) equilibrium, mechanism and plasticity condition of plastic analysis are satisfied
d
5.  Which load is obtained when equilibrium and mechanism conditions of plastic analysis are satisfied?
a) plastic limit load
b) upper bound solution of true ultimate load
c) lower bound solution of true ultimate load
d) no solution
b
6. Which load is obtained when equilibrium and plasticity conditions of plastic analysis are satisfied?
a) plastic limit load
b) upper bound solution of true ultimate load
c) lower bound solution of true ultimate load
d) no solution
c
7.  What is principle of virtual work?
a) work done by external forces is greater than work done by internal forces
b) work done by external forces is less than work done by internal forces
c) work done by external forces is equal to work done by internal forces
d) work done by internal forces is greater than work done by external forces
c
8. Principle of virtual work is used to satisfy _____
a) mechanism condition
b) equilibrium condition
c) plasticity condition
d) no condition is satisfied
b
9. Virtual work is used to determine _____
a) yield load
b) elastic load
c) plastic load
d) collapse load
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Steel Structures.
To practice all areas of Design of Steel Structures, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Plastic-Collapse Load» Next - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Theorem of Plastic Collapse & Methods of Plastic Analysis 
