1.  Arrange the following welds in ascending order as per their usage in structural engineering applications.
a) fillet weld, groove weld, slot and plug weld
b) slot and plug weld, groove weld, fillet weld
c) groove weld, fillet weld, slot and plug weld
d) fillet weld, slot and plug weld, groove weld
b
2. Which of the following type of weld is most suitable for lap and T-joints?
a) Fillet weld
b) Groove weld
c) Slot weld
d) Plug weld
a
3. Which of the following is true about back-up strip provided at bottom of single-V grooves?
a) Back-up strips are commonly used when welding is done from both the sides
b) Back-up strips are commonly used when  root opening is sufficient
c) It creates a problem of burn-through
d) It introduces a crevice into the weld geometry
d
4. The size of root gap and root face for groove weld does not depend on :
a) type of welding process
b) welding position
c) type of metal plate
d) volume of deposited material
c
5. Which of the following groove weld is used for plates of thickness more than 40mm?
a) Double-bevel
b) Single-J
c) Single-U
d) Double-U
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Groove welds should have ________ strength as member they join.
a) same
b) less
c) greater
d) half
a
7.  Which of the following is not true regarding fillet welds?
a) They require less precision in fitting up two sections
b) They are adopted in field as well as shop welding
c) They are assumed to fail in tension
d) They are cheaper than groove welds
c
8. Which of the following is true about slot and plug welds?
a) They are extensively used in steel construction
b) They are assumed to fail in shear
c) The inspection of these welds is easy
d) They are normally used to connect members carrying tensile loads
b
9. Choose the correct option regarding weld metal.
a) Weld metal is same as parent metal
b) Weld metal is same as steel
c) It has higher yield to ultimate ratio
d) It has higher ductility compared to structural steel
c
10. Which of the following is not true regarding pre-heating of heat affected zone ?
a) Pre-heating does not help to reduce heat affected zone cracks
b) Pre-heating increases the cost of welding
c) It is done to remove surface moisture in highly humid conditions
d) It is done to disperse hydrogen away from weld pool and heat affected zone
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Steel Structures.
To practice all areas of Design of Steel Structures, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Welding Process» Next - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Weld Defects & Types of Joints 
