1. A plate girder is used when
a) span is large and loads are heavy
b) span is small and loads are heavy
c) span is small and loads are light
d) span is large and loads are light
a
2. Why plate girder is preferred over truss girder?
a) plate girder requires costly maintenance
b) higher vertical clearance required for plate girder than truss girder
c) cost of fabrication of plate girder is high
d) cost of fabrication of truss girder is high
d
3. Bending resistance of plate girders can be increased by
a) decreasing distance between flanges
b) increasing distance between flanges
c) reducing distance between flanges to half
d) bending resistance cannot be increased
b
4. Which of the following is economical if depth is limited and loads are too large?
a) rolled section beam
b) truss girder
c) welded box plate girder
d) bolted box plate girder
c
5. An ideal bolted plate girder section consists of
a) flange angles and cover plates for both compression flange and tension flange
b) flange angles and cover plates for compression flange and only flange angle for tension flange
c) only flange angle for compression flange and flange angles and cover plates for tension flange
d) flange angles for both compression flange and tension flange
b
6. The modes of failure of plate girder are
a) by yielding of compression flange only
b) by buckling of tension flange only
c) by yielding of tension flange and buckling of compression flange
d) by yielding of compression flange and buckling of tension flange
c
7. At high shear locations in the girder web, principal plane will be ______ to longitudinal axis of member
a) inclined
b) parallel
c) perpendicular
d) coincides
a
8. Which of the following causes web buckling in plate girder?
a) diagonal tension
b) diagonal compression
c) diagonal tension and diagonal compression
d) neither diagonal tension nor diagonal compression
b
9. Which of the following statement is correct for reducing web buckling due to diagonal compression?
a) not providing web stiffeners to increase shear strength
b) providing web stiffeners to reduce shear strength
c) increasing depth-to-thickness ratio
d) reducing depth-to-thickness ratio
d
10. Which of the following is correct during tension field action?
a) web can resist diagonal compression
b) horizontal component of diagonal compression is supported by flanges
c) vertical component of diagonal compression is supported by flanges
d) vertical component of diagonal compression is supported by stiffeners
b
11. Which of the statement is not true about intermediate stiffeners?
a) they reduce shear capacity of web
b) they improve shear capacity of web
c) they can be used to develop tension field action
d) their main purpose is to provide stiffness to the web
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Steel Structures.
To practice tricky questions and answers on all areas of Design of Steel Structures, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Purlins» Next - Design of Steel Structures Questions and Answers – Proportioning of Web & Flanges 
