1. Which of these is not a major direct energy conversion device?
a) magnetohydrodynamic
b) thermionic
c) geothermal
d) fuel cell
c
2. Which of these is the most promising power generation system?
a) magnetohydrodynamic
b) thermoelectric
c) hydrogen
d) fuel cell
a
3. Which of these is not a limitation of conventional energy sources?
a) Resources are limited some are seasonal
b) Most of them emit harmful gases contributing to global warming
c) Situated in remote areas and higher T and D losses
d) requires small areas
d
4. Which of these is a conventional source of energy?
a) sun
b) wind
c) fossil fuels
d) fuel cells
c
5. Which of these is a non-conventional type of power generation without prime movers?
a) hydro power
b) thermal
c) nuclear
d) thermoelectric
d
6. Which of these is not a type of collector in solar power generation?
a) flat plate
b) focusing or concentrating collectors
c) cylindrical parabolic concentrator
d) hyperbolic concentrator
d
7. Which of these is not a merit of tidal power generation?
a) free from problems of ecology balance
b) everlasting
c) no extra submerging of land is required
d) uneven operation
d
8. Which of these is not an effect of distributed generation system on power generation?
a) affects over power generation setting
b) effect in auto reclosing
c) creation of ferro resonance
d) protection from insulation failure
d
9. Which of these is not a component of natural gas?
a) methanol
b) methane
c) ethane
d) propane
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Power Plant Engineering.
To practice all areas of Power Plant Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Power Plant Questions and Answers – Fission Analysis – II» Next - Power Plant Questions and Answers – Magnetohydrodynamic Power Generation 
