1. In the T-S diagram of a Rankine cycle, the abscissa represents?
a) total entropy of turbine steam
b) partial entropy of turbine steam
c) partial enthalpy of turbine steam
d) none of the mentioned
a
2. After the expansion of throttle steam, why is some steam extracted?
a) so that the total amount of steam in the entire system remains same
b) so that the variation in temperature is constant
c) so that pressure variation is constant
d) so that the total entropy is reduced
d
3. The heat given up by the expansion of throttle steam is utilised in?
a) maintaining the heat flow in the system
b) reducing temperature variation in the system
c) heating the feedwater
d) cooling feedwater
c
4. “Regenerative feedwater heating by turbine extraction” is often termed as?
a) Electrophoresis of Rankine cycle
b) Sterlinisation of Rankine cycle
c) Carnotization of Rankine cycle
d) None of the mentioned
c
5. A regenerative feedwater heating cycle with an infinite number of feedwater heaters has efficiency equal to?
a) Brayton cycle
b) Carnot cycle
c) Diesel cycle
d) Otto cycle
b
6. In the T-S diagram, the process of heating from condenser to boiler saturation temperature when the number of turbine extraction stages are finite is?
a) Reversible
b) Irreversible
c) Adiabatic
d) None of the mentioned
b
7. For the process of heating from condenser to boiler saturation temperature to be reversible, the number of extraction stages involved in the entire cycle should be?
a) Zero
b) One
c) Infinite
d) Finite
c
8. Which of the processes immediately follows the expansion of throttle steam?
a) heat given up by the steam is added to feedwater
b) heating from condenser to boiler saturation temperature
c) carnotization of rankine cycle
d) none of the mentioned
a
9. The output from boiler goes to?
a) Turbine
b) Condenser
c) Pump
d) Economiser
a
		Boiler, Turbine, Condenser, Pump, Economiser.
10. The area of parallelogram in the T-S diagram representing the cycle output is equal to?
a) area of rectangle representing the output of the Carnot cycle
b) area of the triangle representing the output of the Carnot cycle
c) area of the square representing the output of the Carnot cycle
d) none of the mentioned
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Power Plant Engineering.
To practice all areas of Power Plant Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Power Plant Questions and Answers – Feedwater Heaters – 2» Next - Power Plant Questions and Answers – Optimum Degree of Regeneration 
