1. If p and q are the efficiencies of a Brayton & Rankine cycles respectively in a Brayton-Rankine combined plant, the efficiency n of a combined plant is?
a) n = p/q
b) n = p+q-pq
c) n = pq
d) n = (1 – pq)
b
	n = p + q – pq.
2. Which of these is a working fluid in the topping plant of a Brayton-Rankine combined plant?
a) Hydrogen
b) Helium
c) Nitrogen
d) All of the mentioned
b
3. Which of these is a working fluid in the bottoming plant of a Brayton-Rankine combined plant?
a) Mercury
b) Steam
c) Water
d) Air
c
4. What would be the temperature of the gas in the combustion chamber?
a) 500 °C
b) 1600 °C
c) 1200 °C
d) 650 °C
b
5. The efficiency of the open cycle gas plant is quite low. Why?
a) Gas gets cooled before reaching the turbine wheels
b) A lot of mechanical energy is used up by the compressor
c) Due to the presence of regenerator and absence of air pre heater
d) Both Gas gets cooled before reaching the turbine wheels and a lot of mechanical energy is used up by the compressor
d
Gas gets cooled before reaching the turbine wheels and a lot of mechanical energy is used up by the turbine wheels.
6. To improve the efficiency of the gas turbines, which among these are used?
a) Regenerator
b) Inter cooling
c) Reheating
d) All of the mentioned
d
7. What is regeneration?
a) Removal of heat from compressed air between stages of compression
b) Transfer of heat energy from exhaust gases to the compressed air flowing between compressor and the combustion chamber
c) To increase the temperature of partially expanded gases by burning more fuel
d) Transfer of heat energy from exhaust gases to the compressed air flowing between compressor and the combustion chamber and increases the temperature of partially expanded gases by burning more fuel
b
8. What is meant by inter cooling?
a) Removal of heat from compressed air between stages of compression
b) Transfer of heat energy from exhaust gases to the compressed air flowing between compressor and the combustion chamber
c) To increase the temperature of partially expanded gases by burning more fuel
d) None of the mentioned
a
9. Which material is used for the manufacture of the turbine blades?
a) Stainless steel
b) Carbon steel
c) High nickel alloy
d) High alloy steel
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Power Plant Engineering.
To practice all areas of Power Plant Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Power Plant Questions and Answers – Energy Analysis of Combined Cycles and Choice of a Gas Turbine» Next - Power Plant Questions and Answers – Thermodynamics of Brayton-Rankine Combined Plant – II 
