1. Which of the following type heater is known as deaerator?
a) Contact-type open heater
b) Contact-type closed heater
c) Closed heater
d) None of the mentioned
a
2. What is the solubility of dissolved gases at boiling or saturation temperature?
a) Positive
b) Negative
c) Zero
d) None of the mentioned
c
3. In the deaerator, the feedwater is heated to the saturation temperature by the steam extracted from?
a) compressor
b) turbine
c) pump
d) none of the mentioned
b
4. The heat exchanger after passing through which, the feedwater is sprayed from the top is called?
a) Vent condenser
b) Vent evaporator
c) Vent economiser
d) Vent heater
a
5. What kind of steam comes through the other side of the feedwater spray?
a) pure steam
b) bled steam
c) saturated steam
d) superheated steam
b
6. The chemical injected into the feedwater at the suction of the boiler feed pump is?
a) Sodium Sulphide
b) Sodium Sulphate
c) Sodium Sulphite
d) Sodium Hydride
c
7. Why is Sodium Sulphite added into the feedwater at the suction of the boiler feed pump?
a) to maximise the effect of dissolved gases
b) to minimise the effect of dissolved gases
c) to increase feedwater concentration
d) none of the mentioned
b
8. Name another chemical apart from Sodium Sulphite which is into the feedwater at the suction of the boiler feed pump?
a) Calcium peroxide
b) Hydroxide
c) Hydrazine
d) Oxymes
c
9. Where is the deaerator placed in the feedwater system?
a) in the beginning
b) in the middle
c) at the end
d) there is no deaerator in the feedwater system
b
10. Why is the deaerator placement in the feedwater system so important?
a) to maximise pressure difference between  the condenser & the boiler
b) to minimise pressure difference between  the condenser & the boiler
c) to make the pressure difference between  the condenser & the boiler Zero
d) none of the mentioned
c
11. Which gases are vented out of the deaerator?
a) Oxygen only
b) Carbon dioxide only
c) Oxygen & Carbon dioxide
d) None of the mentioned
c
12. Net positive suction head(NPSH) is provided because?
a) to prevent vapour lock
b) to prevent cavitation
c) to prevent friction
d) none of the mentioned
b
13. The output of the boiler heat pump is to?
a) the high pressure heater
b) the low pressure heater
c) simultaneously to the low & high pressure heaters
d) none of the mentioned
a
14. Why is the deaerator not employed in water cooled & moderated nuclear power plant?
a) due to radioactivity release in degeneration
b) due to emissivity of degeneration
c) due to reheating
d) due to regeneration
a
15. Which among the following goes to the Vent Condenser along with Oxygen & Carbon dioxide?
a) Sodium sulphite
b) Carbon monoxide
c) Water vapour
d) None of the mentioned
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Power Plant Engineering.
To practice all areas of Power Plant Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Power Plant Questions and Answers – Deaerator – 1» Next - Power Plant Questions and Answers – Efficiencies in a Steam Power Plant – 1 
