1. How is the selection of number of poles made in AC and DC machines?
a) any number of poles can be used for both AC and DC machines
b) fixed number of poles in both AC and DC machines
c) fixed number of poles in DC machines and any number of poles in AC machines
d) fixed number of poles in AC machines and any number of poles in DC machines
d
2. How many considerations are present in the selection of number of poles?
a) 4
b) 5
c) 6
d) 7
d
3. What is the formula for frequency of flux reversals?
a) f = p*n
b) f = p/n
c) f = n/p
d) f = (p*n)/2
d
4. What is the range of frequency during the selection of number of poles?
a) 20-50 Hz
b) 25-40 Hz
c) 25-50 Hz
d) >50 Hz
c
5. What is the relation of hysteresis loss and weight of iron parts with respect to increase of number of poles?
a) decrease in hysteresis loss, increase in weight
b) decrease in hysteresis loss, decrease in weight
c) increase in hysteresis loss, increase in weight
d) increase in hysteresis loss, decrease in weight
b
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. What happens to the weight of copper in both armature and field windings when the number of poles increase?
a) weight of copper in armature winding decreases and weight of copper in field winding increases
b) weight of copper in armature winding increases and weight of copper in field winding decreases
c) weight of copper in armature winding and field winding decreases
d) weight of copper in armature winding and field winding increases
c
7. What happens to the length of the commutators with the increase in number of poles?
a) The length of commutators are increased
b) The length of commutators are decreased
c) The length of commutators are stable
d) The length of commutators are higher
b
8. What happens to the labor charges when there is an increase in number of poles?
a) labor charges are reduced
b) labor charges are increased
c) labor charges are fixed always
d) labor charges vary
b
9. What is the effect of the distortion of field form with respect to the small number of poles?
a) small number of poles cause no distortions
b) small number of poles clears all distortions
c) small number of poles reduces distortions
d) small number of poles increases distortions
d
10. Large number of poles lead to large flashover between brushes.
a) true
b) false
a
11. What is the dependency of the cost of the armature and field windings with respect to large number of poles?
a) high cost for armature windings, low cost for field windings
b) high cost for armature windings, high cost for field windings
c) low cost for armature windings, high cost for field windings
d) low cost for armature windings, low cost for field windings
d
12. Lower values of frequency are used for small machines.
a) true
b) false
b
13. What is the range of the current per parallel path for the choice of number of poles?
a) limited to 100 A
b) limited to 150 A
c) limited to 200 A
d) limited to 250 A
c
14. What should be the range of the current per brush arm?
a) limited to 400 A
b) limited to 200 A
c) limited to 100 A
d) limited to 300 A
a
15. What should be the armature mmf per pole for output over 1500 kW?
a) 5000 A
b) 5000-7500 A
c) 7500-10000 A
d) upto 12500
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Electrical Machines.
To practice all areas of Design of Electrical Machines, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Design of Output Equations» Next - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Pole Design 
