1. How many factors does the design of armature of synchronous machines depend upon?
a) 2
b) 4
c) 3
d) 5
d
2. When are the double layer bar windings made use of during the armature design?
a) large values of flux per pole and small number of turns per phase
b) large values of flux per pole and large number of turns per phase
c) small values of flux per pole and small number of turns per phase
d) small values of flux per pole and large number of turns per phase
a
3. Which type of machines have a large number of poles per phase?
a) high voltage machines and machines with high value of flux per pole
b) high voltage machines and machines with small value of flux per pole
c) small voltage machines and machines with high value of flux per pole
d) small voltage machines and machines with low value of flux per pole
b
4. Which among the following makes double layer windings advantageous than the single layer windings?
a) ease in the manufacture of coils and lower cost of winding
b) less number of coils are required as spare in the case of winding repairs
c) fractional slot windings can be employed
d) ease in the manufacture of coils and lower cost of winding, fractional slot windings can be employed, less number of coils are required as spare in the case of winding repairs
d
5. The single layer windings have higher efficiency and quieter operation because of narrow slot openings.
a) true
b) false
a
6. When is the double layer bar or wave windings made use of?
a) when single turns coils are necessary as with turbo alternators and unipolar low voltage machines
b) when single turns coils are necessary as with turbo alternators and bipolar low voltage machines
c) when single turns coils are necessary as with turbo alternators and multipolar low voltage machines
d) when double turns coils are necessary as with turbo alternators and unipolar low voltage machines
c
7. How many factors are related in the selection of the armature slots?
a) 5
b) 6
c) 7
d) 4
b
8. How is the number of armature slots associated with the armature windings?
a) number of slots should be such that unbalanced winding is obtained
b) number of slots should be such that balanced winding is obtained
c) number of slots should be so low as possible
d) number of slots should be high as possible
b
9. How is the number of armature slots associated with the cost factor?
a) small number of slots leads to less cost
b) small number of slots leads to high cost
c) large number of slots leads to high cost
d) large number of slots leads to low cost
a
10. How is the number of armature slots associated with the hotspot temperature?
a) small number of slots leads to less hotspot temperature
b) small number of slots leads to high hotspot temperature
c) large number of slots leads to high hotspot temperature
d) large number of slots leads to low hotspot temperature
b
11. How is the number of armature slots associated with the leakage reactance?
a) small number of slots leads to less leakage reactance
b) small number of slots leads to high leakage reactance
c) large number of slots leads to high leakage reactance
d) large number of slots leads to low leakage reactance
a
12. How is the number of armature slots associated with the tooth ripples?
a) tooth ripples are increased, if the number of slots are increased
b) tooth ripples are decreased, if the number of slots are increased
c) tooth ripples are increased, if the number of slots are decreased
d) tooth ripples are decreased, if the number of slots are decreased
b
13. How is the number of armature slots associated with the flux densities in iron?
a) tooth ripples are increased, if the number of slots are increased
b) tooth ripples are decreased, if the number of slots are increased
c) tooth ripples are increased, if the number of slots are decreased
d) tooth ripples are decreased, if the number of slots are decreased
a
14. The value of slot pitch depends upon the voltage of the machine.
a) true
b) false
a
15. What is the value of the slot pitch for the low voltage machines?
a) slot pitch < 25 mm
b) slot pitch = 25 mm
c) slot pitch less than equal to 25 mm
d) slot pitch greater than equal to 25 mm
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Electrical Machines.
To practice all areas of Design of Electrical Machines, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Construction of Turbo-Alternators» Next - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Armature Design – 2 
