1. How many factors are involved in the construction of hydro-generators?
a) 11
b) 10
c) 9
d) 8
b
2. Which factor does the constructional feature of the hydro-generators depend on?
a) speed
b) voltage
c) power
d) current
a
3. What factors does the speed of the machines depend upon?
a) head
b) blades
c) type of turbine used
d) head and type of turbine used
d
4. Why is the stator core built up of laminations?
a) to reduce core loss
b) to reduce copper loss
c) to reduce iron loss
d) to reduce eddy current loss
d
5. The modern synchronous machines make use of non-directional cold rolled steel.
a) true
b) false
a
6. What is the thickness of the most commonly used grade for stator laminations?
a) 0.5 mm
b) 1 mm
c) 1.5 mm
d) 2 mm
a
7. What is the range of the outside diameter of the stator frame of the large hydro-generator?
a) 3-18 m
b) 2-18 m
c) 3.5-18 m
d) 4-18 m
c
8. How are the stator windings of all synchronous generator connected?
a) star-delta connection
b) star connection
c) star connection with neutral earthed
d) delta connected
c
9. What among the following is the advantages of the star connection?
a) eliminates single frequency harmonics
b) eliminates double frequency harmonics
c) eliminates triple frequency harmonics
d) eliminates sinusoidal harmonics
c
10. The capacity of the pull out machines used for making the coils limits the pole pitch to less than 0.8 m.
a) true
b) false
a
11. What is the main advantage of a winding with multi-turns coils?
a) reduce the choosing of the value of stator slots
b) allows greater flexibility in selecting the value of stator slots
c) increases the flexibility in selecting the number of stator slots
d) has no effect on the number of stator slots
b
12. What happens to the current in the windings during the sudden short circuits at the line terminals?
a) the current reduces to 15 times the full load current
b) the current increases to 15 times the full load current
c) the current reduces to 10 times the full load current
d) the current increases to 10 times the full load current
b
13. What happens to the electromagnetic forces during the sudden short circuits at the line terminals?
a) the electromagnetic forces get increased by 250 times the force under normal full load condition
b) the electromagnetic forces get decreased by 250 times the force under normal full load condition
c) the electromagnetic forces get increased by 200 times the force under normal full load condition
d) the electromagnetic forces get decreased by 200 times the force under normal full load condition
a
14. What should be done to the conductors in the overhang of the stator?
a) bracing
b) shaving
c) punching
d) compressing
a
15. How many steel brackets are used along with the support to steel rings?
a) 5
b) 7
c) 4-6
d) 5-9
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Electrical Machines.
To practice all areas of Design of Electrical Machines, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Types of Synchronous Machines» Next - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Construction of Hydro-Generators – 2 
