1. What does design mean?
a) creative physical relationship of theoretical concepts
b) producing the hardware
c) idea made into a drawing
d) idea laid out as a thesis
a
2. What are the factors which are employed in the engineering design?
a) application of science
b) application of science and technology
c) application of science and innovation
d) application of science, technology and innovation
d
3. How many considerations are present in the design?
a) 6
b) 4
c) 5
d) 3
d
4. What is the condition of the good design?
a) machine having operating life of 5-10 years
b) machine having operating life of 10-15 years
c) machine having operating life of 15-20 years
d) machine having operating life of 20-30 years
d
5. What are the factors which are important in design when it comes to the machines used in power systems?
a) reliability
b) durability
c) cost
d) reliability and durability
d
6. How many parts are used in the design of the machines?
a) 2
b) 3
c) 4
d) 5
d
7. How many limitations are present in the design of the machine?
a) 7
b) 8
c) 9
d) 10
c
8. How does the saturation levels limit the design?
a) saturation levels decrease the flux density
b) saturation levels increase the flux density
c) saturation levels provides no flux density
d) saturation levels provide very high flux density
d
9. What happens if the insulating material is operated beyond the maximum allowable temperature?
a) the insulation gets damaged
b) the insulation is boosted
c) the insulating materials peels off
d) the lifetime is drastically reduced
d
10. How many types of stresses are present in the machine?
a) 2
b) 3
c) 4
d) 5
b
11. What is the relationship between efficiency and the operating costs?
a) efficiency is directly proportional to the square of the operating cost
b) efficiency is directly proportional to the operating costs
c) efficiency is indirectly proportional to the operating costs
d) efficiency is indirectly proportional to the square of the operating costs
c
12. The mechanical parts design is very much important in which type of machines?
a) low speed machines
b) high speed machines
c) medium speed machines
d) low voltage machines
b
13. What is the relationship between power factor, current and conductor sizes?
a) poor power factor leads to small amount of current and hence high conductor sizes should be used
b) high power factor leads to small amount of current and hence small conductor sizes should be used
c) poor power factor leads to high amount of current and hence high conductor sizes should be used
d) high factor leads to small amount of current and hence high conductor sizes should be used
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Electrical Machines.
To practice all areas of Design of Electrical Machines, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Design of Dc Motor & Synchronous Machine» Next - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Modern Trends in Machine Design & Magnetic Leakage 
