1. How many types are the current transformers classified into?
a) 2
b) 3
c) 4
d) 5
a
2. What is the wound type current transformer?
a) primary winding having one full turn wound on core
b) primary winding having more than one full turn wound on core
c) secondary winding having one full turn wound on core
d) secondary winding having more than one full turn wound on core
b
3. What is the bar type current transformer?
a) primary winding consists of a rod of suitable size and material
b) primary winding consists of a bar of suitable size and material
c) secondary winding consists of a rod of suitable size and material
d) secondary winding consists of a bar of suitable size and material
b
4. How many commonly used shapes of current transformer are present?
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4
c
5. What material is made use of for the lamination in the current transformer?
a) cold rolled steels
b) hot rolled steels
c) copper
d) hot iron
b
Join [email protected]
6. What is the insulation material used in the current transformer?
a) elephantide
b) presspahn
c) elephantide and presspahn
d) elephantide or presspahn
d
7. What is the additional usage of the presspahn material used as insulation material?
a) lamination
b) to reduce the losses
c) to protect secondary winding conductor from mechanical damage
d) to protect secondary winding conductor from electrical damage
c
8. What is the other name of the ring type current transformer?
a) brush transformer
b) cloud transformer
c) circular transformer
d) bushing transformer
d
9. How many faces are present in the split core current transformer?
a) 2
b) 3
c) 4
d) 5
a
10. The current transformers are assembled on to the secondary conductors “on site” for either permanent or temporary duty.
a) true
b) false
b
11. What is the insulation material on the primary conductor?
a) bakelized paper tube
b) resin
c) bakelized paper tube and resin
d) bakelized paper tube or resin
d
12. How is the reluctance of the interleaved corner related with the magnetizing current?
a) reluctance of the interleaved corner is directly proportional to the magnetizing current
b) reluctance of the interleaved corner is indirectly proportional to the magnetizing current
c) reluctance of the interleaved corner is directly proportional to the square of the magnetizing current
d) reluctance of the interleaved corner is indirectly proportional to the square of the magnetizing current
a
13. To reduce the peak voltage between layers, the secondary winding is being sectionalized.
a) true
b) false
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Electrical Machines.
To practice all areas of Design of Electrical Machines, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Errors» Next - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Design Principles 
