1. How many steps are involved in the construction of single phase induction motor?
a) 3
b) 4
c) 5
d) 6
c
2. What is the lamination used for the stator?
a) cast iron
b) die cast aluminium alloy frame
c) cast iron or die cast aluminium alloy frame
d) cast iron and die cast aluminium alloy frame
c
3. What type of coils are used for winding the single phase induction motor generally?
a) rectangular coils
b) square coils
c) cruciform coils
d) circular coils
d
4. How many kinds of single phase windings are present?
a) 2
b) 3
c) 4
d) 5
b
5. How are the poles and pitches in the concentric windings?
a) single pole, different pitches
b) different pole, different pitches
c) different pole, single pitch
d) single pole, single pitch
a
6. What is the form of the progressive windings?
a) double layer diamond coil windings
b) single layer diamond coil windings
c) multi layer diamond coil windings
d) three layer diamond coil windings
b
7. When is the skein winding made use of?
a) when small amount of relatively small size wire is used
b) when large amount of relatively small size wire is used
c) when large amount of relatively large size wire is used
d) when small amount of relatively large size wire is used
a
8. What kind of motor employs the skein winding made use of?
a) maximum horse power single phase induction motor
b) fractional horse power single phase induction motor
c) minimum horse power single phase induction motor
d) zero horse power single phase induction motor
b
9. Which winding is mostly used winding in the single phase induction motor?
a) circular winding
b) concentric winding
c) progressive winding
d) skein winding
b
10. What is/are the advantages of the skein winding?
a) low cost to wind
b) low cost to insert
c) permits some freedom of choice of distribution
d) low cost to wind, low cost to insert, permits some freedom of choice of distribution
d
11. What material is used in the tunnel of the rotor of the single phase induction motor?
a) aluminium
b) copper
c) steel
d) wood
a
12. What type of operations are used in the starting switches?
a) mechanical operation
b) electrical operation
c) centrifugal operation and mechanical operation
d) centrifugal operation
c
13. The ac electrolytic capacitor is formed by winding two sheets of etched aluminium foil.
a) true
b) false
a
14. The electrolytic capacitor and insulator unit is impregnated using ethylene glycol or a derivative.
a) true
b) false
a
15. What is the range of the power factor of electrolytic capacitors?
a) 2-4
b) 4-6
c) 6-8
d) 7-9
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Electrical Machines.
To practice all areas of Design of Electrical Machines, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Types of Motor» Next - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Output Equation 
