1. What bearing is made use of in the horizontal shaft machines?
a) plain bearing
b) thrust bearing
c) push bearing
d) throw bearing
a
2. What is the plain bearing used?
a) sleeve bearings
b) anti friction bearing
c) sleeve or anti friction bearing
d) sleeve and anti friction bearing
c
3. In horizontal shaft machines, the forces acting in which direction is prominent?
a) circular
b) vertical
c) horizontal
d) radial
d
4. In vertical shaft machines, which load is taken up by the thrust bearings?
a) perpendicular load acting upwards
b) perpendicular load acting downwards
c) axial load acting upwards
d) axial load acting downwards
d
5. How are the radial loads caused?
a) dynamic unbalance of rotor
b) unbalanced magnetic pull of rotor
c) dynamic unbalance of rotor or unbalanced magnetic pull of rotor
d) dynamic unbalance of rotor and unbalanced magnetic pull of rotor
c
6. What is the additional setup provided to the simple thrust bearing when it is not able to take up radial loads?
a) ball bearing
b) gear bearing
c) steel bearing
d) guide bearing
d
7. How many guide bearings are used along with the simple thrust bearings to pick up radial loads?
a) 2
b) 3
c) 2 or 3
d) 4
c
8. Where are the bearings for the horizontal shaft placed?
a) outside the machine
b) in the end shields of the machine
c) outside the machine or in the end shields of the machine
d) outside the machine and in the end shields of the machine
c
9. What is the other name of the bearings outside the machine?
a) ball bearing
b) pedestal bearing
c) guide bearing
d) gear bearing
b
10. The phosphor bronze sleeve bearings are used for the small electrical machines.
a) true
b) false
a
11. Anti-friction bearings are lubricated by charcoal.
a) true
b) false
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Electrical Machines.
To practice all areas of Design of Electrical Machines, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Design of Shaft» Next - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Frames of D.C. & A.C. Machines 
