1. What is the concept of power rating of machines with respect to voltage?
a) the required supply voltage for smooth running of the machine
b) the required supply voltage for stopping the machine
c) the required supply voltage for speeding the machine
d) the required supply voltage for slowing up the machine
a
2. What is the concept of power rating of machines with respect to current?
a) Maximum permissible amount of current that can easily flow
b) Minimum permissible amount of current that can easily flow
c) Maximum permissible amount of current that can stop the machine
d) Maximum permissible amount of current that can stop the machine
a
3. What happens if there is insufficient rating of the machine?
a) The efficiency of the machine increases
b) The efficiency of the machine improves
c) Damage and shutdown occurs
d) Loading problems occur
c
4. What happens if the power ratings of the machine are decided liberally?
a) Damage occurs to the machine
b) Efficiency of the machine improves
c) Long life of the machine
d) Uneconomical usage of the machine
d
5. If the power ratings are crossed, machine breakdown occurs.
a) True
b) False
a
6. Which are the important criteria related to the power ratings of the machine?
a) Heat should be prevented from generation
b) Heat should be dissipated through power ventilation, irrespective of the time
c) Heat should be prevented through power ventilation within a short time period
d) Heat should be converted to some useful form
c
7. What is the concept of thermal loading?
a) Output power is indirectly proportional to the temperature rise
b) Output power is indirectly proportional to the square of temperature rise
c) Output power is directly proportional to the temperature rise
d) Output power is directly proportional to the square of temperature rise
c
8. What is the ideal condition for thermal dissipation?
a) Heat generated > Heat Dissipated
b) Heat generated < Heat Dissipated
c) Heat generated = Heat Dissipated
d) Heat generated = 0
c
9. What is the main objective of power ratings of machines?
a) helps in building a suitable thermal model of machines
b) helps in building a suitable physical model of machines
c) helps in classifying the machines into different types
d) helps to improve the machine efficiency
a
10. Power ratings help in classifying machines to different classes of duties.
a) true
b) false
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Electrical Machines.
To practice all areas of Design of Electrical Machines, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Temperature Rise and Insulating Materials» Next - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Design of Armature 
