1. What is the special feature of single phase induction motor?
a) high starting torque
b) low starting torque
c) average starting torque
d) zero starting torque
d
2. How many methods are present in the self starting of the single phase induction motor?
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4
c
3. What are the names of the windings used in the split phase starting?
a) starting windings
b) auxiliary windings
c) starting or auxiliary windings
d) starting and auxiliary windings
c
4. What is the displacement of the running and the starting windings used?
a) running winding displaces the starting winding by 180°
b) running winding displaces the starting winding by 90°
c) starting winding displaces the running winding by 90°
d) starting winding displaces the running winding by 180°
b
5. How is the required phase displacement between the current in the running and starting windings obtained?
a) by connecting a suitable resistor
b) by connecting a suitable capacitor
c) by connecting a suitable inductor
d) by connecting a suitable impedance
d
6. When is the starting winding cut out of the circuit in the split phase motor?
a) when the motor speed reaches 65 % of the full load speed
b) when the motor speed reaches 75 % of the full load speed
c) when the motor speed reaches 50 % of the full load speed
d) when the motor speed reaches 85 % of the full load speed
b
7. What is the shaded pole starting method?
a) part of the pole is shaded by open circuited copper ring
b) part of the pole is shaded by short circuited copper ring
c) the pole is shaded by open circuited copper ring
d) the pole is shaded by short circuited copper ring
b
8. What happens in the shaded pole starting method according to the displacement?
a) displacement between shaded and unshaded portion varies between 20°-25°
b) displacement between shaded and unshaded portion varies between 20°-35°
c) displacement between shaded and unshaded portion varies between 20°-30°
d) displacement between shaded and unshaded portion varies between 30°-45°
c
9. For what type of machines is the shaded pole starting method suitable?
a) for outputs below 60 watt
b) for output below 50 watt
c) for output below 40 watt
d) for output above 50 watt
a
10. When is the repulsion motor starting method used?
a) when low starting torque is required
b) when high starting torque is required
c) when high running torque is required
d) when low running torque is required
b
11. What is the specialty in the repulsion motor starting method?
a) cage winding is replaced by armature windings
b) cage winding is replaced by field windings
c) cage winding is replaced by commutator windings
d) cage winding is replaced by bearings
c
12. What happens in the repulsion motor starting method?
a) the cage windings is dominant
b) the commutator windings are dominant
c) the rotor windings are dominant
d) the stator windings are dominant
b
13. What is the range of output watt for the shaded pole induction machine?
a) 0.37-50
b) 90-750
c) 90-3700
d) 7.5-370
a
14. What is the range of the starting current of capacitor type induction motor?
a) 5-7
b) 4–6
c) 2-6
d) 2-3
b
15. What is the range of the starting torque of shaded pole induction motor?
a) 2-4
b) 2-3.5
c) 0.2-0.3
d) 0.25-0.5
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Electrical Machines.
To practice all areas of Design of Electrical Machines, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Design of Fan» Next - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Single Phase Induction Motor Construction 
