1. What is the consideration for the determination of the diameter of shaft?
a) stiffness
b) voltage
c) current
d) rigidity
c
2. What is the meaning of stiffness?
a) ability to transmit the power
b) ability to withstand the weight of the rotor
c) ability to withstand unbalanced magnetic pull
d) ability to withstand the weight of rotor and unbalanced magnetic pull
d
3. What should be the first property of the shaft design?
a) the shaft design should be such that the shaft must have enough corrosion resistance
b) the shaft design should be such that the shaft must have enough mechanical strength
c) the shaft design should be such that the shaft has enough tensile strength
d) the shaft design should be able to withstand the voltage fluctuations
b
4. What is the second property of the shaft design?
a) the shaft design should be such that it has high rigidity
b) the shaft design should be such that it should have high tensile strength
c) the shaft design should be such that it should have high corrosion resistance
d) the shaft design should be such that it should withstand voltage fluctuations
a
5. The critical speeds of rotation should be different from running speed of machine.
a) true
b) false
a
6. What is the formula of the diameter of the shaft?
a) diameter of the shaft = 5.5 + (output in watt/rps)1/3 mm
b) diameter of the shaft = 5.5 – (output in watt/rps)1/3 mm
c) diameter of the shaft = 5.5 * (output in watt/rps)1/3 mm
d) diameter of the shaft = 5.5 / (output in watt/rps)1/3 mm
c
7. What is the relation of the diameter of the shaft in the bearings to the diameter under the armature?
a) diameter of the shaft is very much greater than the diameter under the armature
b) diameter of the shaft is greater than the diameter under the armature
c) diameter of the shaft is equal to the diameter under the armature
d) diameter of the shaft is lesser than the diameter under the armature
d
8. What happens when the diameter under armature is 150 mm or above?
a) diameter of the shaft in bearing is 100 mm smaller than the maximum diameter
b) diameter of the shaft in bearing is 90 mm smaller than the maximum diameter
c) diameter of the shaft in bearing is 70 mm smaller than the maximum diameter
d) diameter of the shaft in bearing is 50 mm smaller than the maximum diameter
d
9. What happens in the case of the small shafts?
a) the diameter in the bearings should be about 1/3 of the maximum diameter
b) the diameter in the bearing should be about 2/3 of the maximum diameter
c) the diameter in the bearing should be about 2/5 of the maximum diameter
d) the diameter in the bearing should be about 1/5 of the maximum diameter
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Electrical Machines.
To practice all areas of Design of Electrical Machines, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Turns Compensation» Next - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Bearings 
