1. What are the subjects to which the design of electrical machines is compared to?
a) science and maths
b) maths and art
c) maths
d) science and art
d
2. How many design problems are present according to the modern trends in design of electrical machines?
a) 2
b) 3
c) 4
d) 5
b
3. What is one of the major aspects in the modern day design?
a) design machines to form a group
b) design machines to provided integrated systems
c) design machines to provide a single system
d) design machine to form multiple group with interconnection
c
4. How are the machines sometimes designed with respect to ratings?
a) design 2 machines with different rating
b) design a series of machines with different ratings to fit into a single frame size
c) design a series of machines with same rating to fit into a single frame size
d) design 2 machines with the same rating
b
5. What are the factors which are considered when the optimal solution involves iterations wherein the values of variables are changed?
a) performance
b) cost constraint
c) performance or cost constraint
d) performance and cost constraint
d
6. The computer aided design is one of the modern techniques which is used to provide accurate and comprehensive design.
a) true
b) false
a
7. What is the relation between reluctance, flux and mmf of the machine?
a) low reluctance, less flux leakage, high mmf
b) low reluctance, high flux leakage, high mmf
c) high reluctance, high flux leakage, low mmf
d) high reluctance, less flux linkage, high mmf
a
8. How should the air gaps be present in the magnetic circuit according to length and cross section?
a) low length, low cross section
b) high length, high cross section
c) high length, low cross section
d) low length, high cross section
d
9. What is the function of the leakage flux?
a) contributes to the transfer of energy
b) contributes to the conversion of energy
c) contributes to both the conversion of energy and transfer of energy
d) does not contributes to the conversion or transfer of energy
d
10. How many factors does the leakage flux affect?
a) 6
b) 7
c) 8
d) 9
c
11. In the B-H magnetization curve, the flux density occupies the x axis.
a) true
b) false
b
12. What is the formula of the leakage coefficient?
a) leakage coefficient = total flux * useful flux
b) leakage coefficient = total flux / useful flux
c) leakage coefficient = useful flux / total flux
d) leakage coefficient = total flux + useful flux
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Electrical Machines.
To practice MCQs on all areas of Design of Electrical Machines, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Design of Machines, Limitations in Design» Next - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Determination of Iron Losses & Slot Leakage 
