1. What is stacking factor?
a) the allowance made for the power loss
b) the allowance made for the space loss between laminations
c) the allowance made for the heat loss between laminations
d) the allowance made for the power loss between laminations
b
2. What is utilization factor?
a) utilization factor= cross sectional area + gross area of the core
b) utilization factor= cross sectional area – gross area of the core
c) utilization factor= cross sectional area * gross area of the core
d) utilization factor= cross sectional area / gross area of the core
d
3. What is the relationship between utilization factor and the number of core steps?
a) utilization factor is directly proportional to the number of core steps
b) utilization factor is indirectly proportional to the number of core steps
c) utilization factor is indirectly proportional to the square of number of core steps
d) utilization factor is directly proportional to the square of number of core steps
a
4. What is the optimum number of steps for small and large transformers?
a) 5, 10
b) 10, 15
c) 6, 15
d) 1, 10
c
5. What happens if the utilization factor gets improved?
a) core area increases and the volt/turns decreases
b) core area increases and the volt/turns increases
c) core area decreases and the volt/turn decreases
d) core area decreases and the volt/turn increases
b
6. How many types of cores are available for core type of transformer?
a) 2
b) 3
c) 4
d) 5
b
7. What type of core section is used for shell type transformer?
a) rectangular
b) square
c) stepped
d) cruciform
a
8. What is the range of the ratio of depth to width of core in rectangular core?
a) 1-2
b) 1.5-2.5
c) 1.4-2
d) 1.5-2
c
9. When is square and stepped cores used?
a) when circular coils are required for low voltage distribution
b) when rectangular coils are required for low voltage distribution
c) when circular coils are required for high voltage distribution
d) when rectangular coils are required for high voltage distribution
c
10. Circular coils are preferred because of their electrical characteristics.
a) true
b) false
b
11. What is the ratio of the net core area to the area of the circumscribing circle in square cores?
a) 0.58
b) 0.64
c) 0.70
d) 0.80
a
12. The laminations are manufactured in standard size to minimize the wastage of steel during punching of laminations.
a) true
b) false
a
13. What is the value of ratio of gross core area to the area of circumscribing circle in stepped cores?
a) 0.71
b) 0.79
c) 0.89
d) 0.91
b
14. What is the net core area for three stepped transformers?
a) 0.45
b) 0.56
c) 0.6
d) 0.62
c
15. What is the relationship between the number of steps to the area of circumscribing circle?
a) number of steps is directly proportional to the area of the circumscribing circle
b) number of steps is indirectly proportional to the area of the circumscribing circle
c) number of steps is directly proportional to square of the area of the circumscribing circle
d) number of steps is indirectly proportional to square of the area of the circumscribing circle
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Electrical Machines.
To practice all areas of Design of Electrical Machines, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Window Space Factor» Next - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Design of Core and Winding – 2 
