1. How many design principles are present in the current transformers?
a) 2
b) 3
c) 4
d) 5
d
2. What should be done in order to reduce the errors in the core?
a) armature mmf is to kept low
b) field mmf to be kept high
c) the exciting mmf is to be kept low
d) the field mmf is to be kept high
c
3. How many classifications are the magnetic alloys used in the current transformers classified into?
a) 3
b) 2
c) 4
d) 5
a
4. What is the material used in the transformer when the transformer errors should be small?
a) mumetal cores
b) steel cores
c) permender cores
d) presshamn cores
a
5. What is the relation of the secondary winding leakage reactance and secondary circuit impedance?
a) secondary winding leakage reactance is directly proportional to the secondary circuit impedance
b) secondary winding leakage reactance is indirectly proportional to the secondary circuit impedance
c) secondary winding leakage reactance is directly proportional to the square of the secondary circuit impedance
d) secondary winding leakage reactance is indirectly proportional to the square of the secondary circuit impedance
a
6. The ring shaped cores are made use of in the reduction of the secondary winding leakage reactance and secondary impedance.
a) true
b) false
a
7. What type of core is employed when the performance standard required is not so high?
a) rectangular strips
b) c-shaped sections
c) rectangular strips or c-shaped sections
d) rectangular strips and c-shaped sections
c
8. What should the magnetic path be in order to reduce the core reluctance?
a) length of the magnetic path in core should be low
b) length of the magnetic path in core should be medium
c) length of the magnetic path in core should be high
d) length of the magnetic path in core should be very high
a
9. What is the value of the rated secondary current?
a) 1 A
b) 2 A
c) 3 A
d) 5 A
d
10. What are the disadvantages of the low rated secondary current transformer?
a) high cost
b) high voltages
c) high voltages or high cost
d) high voltages and high cost
d
11. What is the ideal condition with respect to the primary current rating?
a) ratio of secondary mmf to primary mmf should be high
b) ratio of secondary mmf to primary mmf should be low
c) ratio of excitation mmf to primary mmf should be high
d) ratio of excitation mmf to primary mmf should be low
d
12. What is the rating of the primary current in the current transformer?
a) 200 A
b) 300 A
c) 400 A
d) 500 A
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Electrical Machines.
To practice all areas of Design of Electrical Machines, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Current Transformers Construction» Next - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Turns Compensation 
