1. How many factors influence the power factor of an induction motor?
a) 3
b) 2
c) 1
d) 4
b
2. What is the relation between the magnetizing current and power factor?
a) magnetizing current is directly proportional to the power factor
b) magnetizing current is indirectly proportional to the power factor
c) magnetizing current is directly proportional to the square of the power factor
d) magnetizing current is indirectly proportional to the square of the power factor
a
3. What is the relation between the leakage current and power factor?
a) leakage current is directly proportional to the power factor
b) leakage current is indirectly proportional to the power factor
c) leakage current is directly proportional to the square of the power factor
d) leakage current is indirectly proportional to the square of the power factor
b
4. What is the formula for dispersion coefficient?
a) dispersion coefficient = magnetizing current / ideal short circuit current
b) dispersion coefficient = magnetizing current * ideal short circuit current
c) dispersion coefficient = magnetizing current + ideal short circuit current
d) dispersion coefficient = magnetizing current – ideal short circuit current
a
5. What is the formula for dispersion coefficient?
a) dispersion coefficient = 0.838 * 106 * 3.14 / air gap length * effective specific permeance / pole pitch * (window space factor)2 * number of slots per pole per phase
b) dispersion coefficient = 0.838 * 106 * 3.14 * air gap length / effective specific permeance / pole pitch * (window space factor)2 * number of slots per pole per phase
c) dispersion coefficient = 0.838 * 106 * 3.14 * air gap length * effective specific permeance * pole pitch * (window space factor)2 * number of slots per pole per phase
d) dispersion coefficient = 0.838 * 106 * 3.14 * air gap length * effective specific permeance / pole pitch * (window space factor)2 * number of slots per pole per phase
d
6. The increase in number of poles, the dispersion coefficient increases and this gives a low power factor.
a) true
b) false
a
7. What is the relation between the number of poles and pole pitch with power factor?
a) number of poles increases, pole pitch increases, bad power factor
b) number of poles increases, pole pitch decreases, good power factor
c) number of poles increases, pole pitch decreases, good power factor
d) number of poles increases, pole pitch increases, bad power factor
c
8. What is the relation between the power factor and the air gap length?
a) small air gap length, dispersion coefficient increases, good power factor
b) small air gap length, dispersion coefficient decreases, bad power factor
c) small air gap length, dispersion coefficient increases, bad power factor
d) small air gap length, dispersion coefficient decreases, good power factor
d
9. What is the relation between the dispersion coefficient and maximum power factor?
a) dispersion coefficient is directly proportional to the power factor
b) dispersion coefficient is indirectly proportional to the power factor
c) dispersion coefficient is directly proportional to the square of the power factor
d) dispersion coefficient is indirectly proportional to the square of the power factor
b
10. What is the value of the no. of poles for obtaining a dispersion coefficient = 0.5?
a) 5
b) 7
c) 10
d) 6
d
11. What is the relation between the overload capacity and dispersion coefficient?
a) overload capacity is directly proportional to the dispersion coefficient
b) overload capacity is indirectly proportional to the dispersion coefficient
c) overload capacity is directly proportional to the square of the dispersion coefficient
d) overload capacity is indirectly proportional to the square of the dispersion coefficient
b
12. What is the relation between the overload capacity and magnetizing current?
a) overload capacity is directly proportional to the magnetizing current
b) overload capacity is indirectly proportional to the magnetizing current
c) overload capacity is directly proportional to the square of the magnetizing current
d) overload capacity is indirectly proportional to the square of the magnetizing current
a
13. What is the relation between the ideal short circuit current and the number of poles?
a) short circuit current is directly proportional to the number of poles
b) short circuit current is directly proportional to the square of the number of poles
c) short circuit current is indirectly proportional to the number of poles
d) short circuit current is indirectly proportional to the square of the number of poles
c
14. What is the relation between maximum power and the number of poles?
a) maximum power factor is directly proportional to the number of poles
b) maximum power factor is directly proportional to the square of the number of poles
c) maximum power factor is indirectly proportional to the number of poles
d) maximum power factor is indirectly proportional to the square of the number of poles
c
15. The magnetizing current decreases as the number of poles is decreased.
a) true
b) false
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Electrical Machines.
To practice all areas of Design of Electrical Machines, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – No Load Current» Next - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Losses and Efficiency 
