1. What is the property of magnetic materials?
a) Resistivity
b) Conductivity
c) Permeability
d) Ductility
c
2. What is the property of permeability in magnetic materials?
a) how easily the magnetic flux is broken/clear
b) how easily the magnetic flux is set up
c) how long the magnetic flux takes to form
d) how long the magnetic flux takes to clear
b
3. What is the representation of permeability?
a) coercivity/retentivity
b) flux/flux density
c) magnetic force/magnetic flux density
d) magnetic flux density/magnetic force
d
4. How should the permeability and number of ampere turns for good magnetic materials be?
a) high permeability, high ampere turns
b) high permeability, low ampere turns
c) low permeability, low ampere turns
d) low permeability, high ampere turns
b
5. Is retentivity associated with B-H curve?
a) Yes
b) No
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. What is the property of retentivity in magnetic materials?
a) After removal of external magnetic fields, magnetization exists
b) After removal of external magnetic fields, magnetization doesn’t exist
c) After removal of internal magnetic fields, magnetization exists
d) After removal of internal magnetic fields, magnetization doesn’t exist
a
7. What is coercivity force in magnetic materials?
a) The force required to add upon the existing magnetization
b) The force required to remove the existing magnetization
c) The force required to produce magnetic flux
d) The force required to break magnetic flux
b
8. What are magnetic hard materials?
a) High retentivity, low coercivity
b) High retentivity, high coercivity
c) Low retentivity, low coercivity
d) Low retentivity, high coercivity
b
9. What is reluctance in magnetic materials?
a) Allows the buildup of magnetic flux
b) Reduces the buildup of magnetic flux
c) Resists the buildup of magnetic flux
d) Increases the buildup of magnetic flux
c
10. High Reluctance affects the performance of magnetic materials.
a) True
b) False
a
11. What is the unit of reluctance in magnetic materials?
a) Henry/m
b) Weber/m2
c) Ampere-turns/Weber
d) Ampere-turns/m
c
12. How many classifications of magnetic materials are present?
a) 3
b) 4
c) 5
d) 6
c
13. What is the property of ferromagnetic materials?
a) Negative magnetization
b) Magnetization slightly less than 1
c) Magnetization slightly greater than 1
d) Magnetization very much higher than 1
d
14. What is the example of diamagnetic materials?
a) Quartz
b) Pyrite
c) Montmorillonite
d) Biotite
a
15. What is the example of ferromagnetic materials is?
a) Magnetite
b) Hematite
c) Nickel
d) Biotite
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Design of Electrical Machines.
To practice all areas of Design of Electrical Machines, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – High Conductivity Materials» Next - Design of Electrical Machines Questions and Answers – Insulating Materials 
