1. Miniaturization of components with superior performance can be obtained in
a) Integrated circuits
b) Discrete circuits
c) Both integrated and discrete circuits
d) None of the mentioned
a
2. Why Integrated Circuits are considered to be economical?
a) Simple manufacturing process
b) Provide trouble free service
c) Due to batch production
d) Easy to use and reuse
c
3. Which of the following circuit is not made of digital ICs?
a) Shift registers
b) Multipliers
c) Demultiplexers
d) Counters
b
4. Controlling the characteristics of operating region is not taken care in digital ICs because
a) It involves only two voltages
b) It is used to form transistor logic
c) Digital IC requires only power supply, input and output
d) All of the mentioned
a
5. Linear Integrated Circuit can also be called as
a) Monolithic circuit
b) General purpose circuit
c) Special purpose
d) Analog circuit
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. How are components array available in IC form?
a) Array of silicon wafer
b) Group of isolated transistor, diodes and resistor
c) Array of individual stages of differential and cascade amplifier
d) Group of gates logic circuits arranged in array format
b
7. Which type of integrated circuit is suitable for small quantity custom circuits?
a) Monolithic IC
b) Linear IC
c) Hybrid IC
d) Digital IC
c
8. What is the isolation technique used in monolithic IC?
a) PN-junction
b) Dielectric junction
c) Beam-lead junction
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. Monolithic Integrated Circuits exhibits
a) Increase in power consumption
b) Non-matched devices
c) Thermal stability
d) All of the mentioned
c
10. How are thin film hybrid ICs obtained?
a) Evaporation method
b) Spraying method
c) Silk screening method
d) Adiabatic cooling method
a
11. Which of the following belongs to special purpose op-amp?
a) LM741
b) LM380
c) IC351
d) None of the mentioned
b
12. How many op-amps will be present in a typical op-amp package?
a) Three
b) Four
c) Five
d) Nine
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Linear Integrated Circuits.
To practice all areas of Linear Integrated Circuits, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Fabrication of FET» Next - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Integrated Circuit Package Type, Pin Configuration and Temperature Range – 2 
