1. Open loop op-amp configuration has
a) Direct network between output and input terminals
b) No connection between output and feedback network
c) No connection between input and feedback network
d) All of the mentioned
a
2. In which configuration does the op-amp function as a high gain amplifier?
a) Differential amplifier
b) Inverting amplifier
c) Non-inverting amplifier
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. How does the open loop op-amp configuration classified?
a)  Based on the output obtained
b) Based on the input applied
c) Based on the amplification
d) Based on the feedback network
b
4. What will be the voltage drop across the source resistance of differential amplifier when connected in open loop configuration?
a) Zero
b) Infinity
c) One
d) Greater than one
a
5. The output voltage of an open-loop differential amplifier is equal to
a) Double the difference between the two input voltages
b) Product of voltage gain and individual input voltages
c) Product of voltage gain and the difference between the two input voltages
d) Double the voltage gain and the difference between two input voltages
c
6. Calculate the output voltage for the given circuit.
a) Vo = 7v
b) Vo = 5.9v
c) Vo = 12v
d) Vo = 11.4v
c
=> Vo = 4*(12v-9v) = 12v.
7. Find the output of inverting amplifier?
a) Vo  = AVin
b) Vo  = -AVin
c) Vo  = -A(Vin1– Vin2)
d) None of the mentioned
b
8. Determine the output voltage for the non-inverting amplifier input voltage 37µVpp sinewave. Assume that the output is a 741.
a) -7.44 Vpp sinewave
b) 74 Vpp sinewave
c) 7.4Vpp sinewave
d) 0.7 Vpp sinewave
c
9. Find the non-inverting amplifier configuration from the given circuit diagram?
c
10. What happen if any positive input signal is applied to open-loop configuration?
a) Output reaches saturation level
b) Output voltage swing’s peak to peak
c) Output will be a sine waveform
d) Output will be a non-sinusoidal waveform
a
11. Why open-loop op-amp configurations are not used in linear applications?
a) Output reaches positive saturation
b) Output reaches negative saturation
c) Output switches between positive and negative saturation
d) Output reaches both positive and negative saturation
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Linear Integrated Circuits.
To practice all areas of Linear Integrated Circuits, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Ideal Operational Amplifier» Next - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Block Diagram Representation of Feedback Configurations 
