1. An electrical filter is a
a) Phase-selective circuit
b) Frequency-selective circuit
c) Filter-selective circuit
d) None of the mentioned
b
2. Filters are classified as
a) Analog or digital
b) Passive or active
c) Audio or radio frequency
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. Why inductors are not preferred for audio frequency?
a) Large and heavy
b) High power dissipation
c) High input impedance
d) None of the mentioned
a
4. The problem of passive filters is overcome by using
a) Analog filter
b) Active filter
c) LC filter
d) A combination of analog and digital filters
b
5. What happens if inductors are used in low frequency applications?
a) Enhance inductor usage
b) No losses occurs
c) Degrades inductor performance
d) Low power dissipation
c
6. Find out the incorrect statement about active and passive filters.
a) Gain is not attenuated in active filter
b) Passive filters are less expensive
c) Active filter does not cause loading of source
d) Passive filters are difficult to tune or adjust
b
7. What are the most commonly used active filters?
a) All of the mentioned
b) Low pass and High pass filters
c) Band pass and Band reject filters
d) All-pass filters
a
8. Choose the op-amp that improves the filter performance.
a) µA741
b) LM318
c) LM101A
d) MC34001
b
9. Ideal response of filter takes place in
a) Pass band and stop band frequency
b) Stop band frequency
c) Pass band frequency
d) None of the mentioned
c
10. Find out the low pass filter from the given frequency response characteristics.
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Linear Integrated Circuits.
To practice all areas of Linear Integrated Circuits, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Differentiator» Next - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Active Filters – 2 
