1. Find the epitaxial resistor from the given cross-sectional view diagram?
a) 
b) 
c) 
d) 
a
2.  Which integrated resistor can achieve high value of sheet resistance?
a) Pinched resistor
b) Epitaxial resistor
c) Thin film resistor
d) All of the mentioned
a
3. How pinched resistor can give resistance in order of mega-ohm in a reasonably small area?
a) By increasing fabrication steps
b) By offering bulk resistance in n-region
c) By reducing conduction path
d) By limiting the thickness of are
c
4. Which of the following is not used as metallic film in the thin film resistor?
a) Nichrome (NiCr)
b) Tantalum (Ta)
c) Stannic oxide (SnO2)
d) Silicon dioxide (SiO2)
d
5. Pick out the incorrect statement
a) Sheet resistance have smaller and lesser parasitic components
b) Value of resistor can be easily adjusted after fabrication
c) Resistance in the range 100kΩ possible using nichrome resistors
d) Thin film resistors are more stable
c
6. Find the equivalent circuit of junction capacitor?
a) 
b) 
c) 
d) 
b
7. The capacitance of junction capacitor does not depend upon
a) Impurity concentration of p-type epitaxial layer
b) Impurity concentration of n-type epitaxial layer
c) Area of the junction
d) Voltage across the junction
a
8. Which is used as the dielectric layer in MOS Capacitor?
a) Silicon Nitride (Si3N4)
b) Aluminium oxide (Al2O3)
c) Tantalum oxide (Ta2O5)
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. Which is considered to be a serious disadvantages of thin film capacitor, when Al2O3is used as dielectric.
a) Additional fabrication step required
b) It require over voltage protection
c) Higher dielectric constant value is required
d) All of the mentioned
b
10. In MOS capacitor, the preference in dielectric layer is given to Silicon Nitride (Si3N4) because
a) It makes capacitor non-polar
b) It contain a small resistance
c) It offers less processing step
d) It reduces failure mechanism
a
11. Why inductor is avoided in Integrated Circuit component?
a) They provide many losses compared to other IC components
b) IC devices are essentially two dimensions
c) Device density of IC increases
d) Fabrication process of these components are complicated
b
12. Which circuit is used to replace inductor in IC components?
a) RC active network
b) PN-junction diode
c) LC active network
d) None of the mentioned
a
13. In application such as RF and IF circuits, inductor cannot be avoided. How to manage such situation?
a) Using inductors external to IC package
b) Thin film inductor spiral are used
c) Thin film hybrid microwave can be used
d) All of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Linear Integrated Circuits.
To practice MCQs on all areas of Linear Integrated Circuit, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Active and Passive Components of IC – 2» Next - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Thin Film and Thick Film Technology 
