1. Strain gage are used to monitor change in
a) Pressure
b) Torque
c) Displacement
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. Which type of resistive transducer is most commonly used?
a) Thermistor
b) Photoconductive cell
c) Strain gage
d) All of the mentioned
a
3. What is the unit of strain gage?
a) Ω/oC
b) Lux
c) Newton / meter2
d) Volts
c
4. Which type of strain gage has better resolution?
a) Semiconductor strain gage
b) Wire strain gage
c) Wire and Semiconductor strain gage
d) None of the mentioned
a
Join [email protected]
5. How a differential instrumentation amplifier using transducer bridge can be used as a temperature controller?
a) Increase room temperature
b) Replaces calibrated meter with relay
c) Change the bridge resistance
d) Replace thermistor by light intensity meter
b
6. The strain gage elements in the analog weight scale are mounted on a
a) Base of weight platform
b) Hanging weight platform
c) Loading weight platform
d) Varying weight platform
a
7. What will be the resultant circuit, when the thermistor in the bridge transducer is replaced by a strain gage?
a) Differential input and differential output amplifier
b) Light intensity
c) Analog weight scale
d) None of the mentioned
c
8.
RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4 are unstrained gage resistance. If the resistance change in each gage is 0.3Ω. Choose the correct option?
1. RT1 and RT3 increases by 0.3Ω
2. RT2 and RT4 decreases by 0.3Ω
3. RT1 and RT3 increases by 0.3Ω
4. RT2 and RT4 decreases by 0.3Ω
a) 3 and 4
b) 1 and 2
c) 1 and 4
d) 2 and 3
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Linear Integrated Circuits.
To practice all areas of Linear Integrated Circuits, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Instrumentation Amplifier – 2» Next - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – High Frequency Op-Amp Equivalent Circuit 
