1. The special designed comparators are compatible with
a) RTL
b) MOS Logic
c) TTL
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. Response time of comparators is defined as
a) Time interval between input and output crossing upper threshold voltage
b) Time interval between input and output function
c) Time interval between input and output crossing threshold logic
d) Time interval between input and output crossing lower threshold voltage
c
3. The voltage level at which the comparator saturated by a differential input equal to greater than a specified voltage is called
a) Zero output level
b) Positive output level
c) Negative output level
d)  All of the mentioned
c
4. When the logic level of strobe output is at zero, then the output current is called
a) Strobe terminal current
b) Strobe current
c) Strobe threshold current
d) Strobe bias current
b
5. The strobe release time is defined as
a) Time required for output to rise to logic threshold
b) Time required for input to rise to logic threshold
c) Time required for output to rise to zero logic
d) Time required for output to rise to one logic
d
6. Which of the following comparator can operate from ±15 to down to +5v supply in op-amp?
a) µA741
b) µA311
c) µA351
d) All of the mentioned
b
7. Find the comparator that has slow response time
a) LM1414
b) µF311
c) ICL8001
d) None of the mentioned
a
8. Why ICL8001 op-amp comparator is preferred for most applications?
a) Low power consumption
b) High response time
c) High input current
d) Balanced input offset voltage
a
9. Which op-amp is preferred for application like high speed A-D converter and zero crossing detector.
a) ICL8001
b) LM1414
c) µA311
d) µA670
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Linear Integrated Circuits.
To practice all areas of Linear Integrated Circuits, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Voltage Limiter and Schmitt Trigger» Next - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Basic DAC Techniques – 1 
