1. When does an integrated circuit exhibit greater degree of freedom and electrical performance?
a) In thin and thick film technology
b) In semiconductor technology
c) In semiconductor and films technology
d) In thick film technology only
c
2. Give the thickness range of the film used in thin film technology
a) 0.5-2.5 mils
b) 0.02-8 mils
c) 10-20 mils
d) 0.05-0.0 7mils
b
W.k.t, 1 Å=0.4 µmil,
=>50 Å=50 × 0.4µmil=0.02 mmil,
=>20,000 Å=20, 000*0.4µmil=8 mmil,
=>therefore, the thickness range from 0.02-8 mmil. 
3. Which technology is used to get cheap resistors and capacitors?
a) Thick film technology
b) Thin film technology
c) Thin and thick film technology
d) None of the mentioned
b
4. How is the process of film deposition carried out in cathode sputtering?
a) Slower than evaporation method
b) Faster than evaporation method
c) Similar to same as evaporation method
d) All of the mentioned
a
5. How a uniform film with good crystal structure is attained in cathode sputtering process?
a) By hitting high energy particle directly on the substrate
b) Allowing Less time for the particles to deposit on the substrate
c) High energy particle diffuse through low pressure gas and deposits on the substrate
d) Heavy inert gas is used for film deposition on the substrate
c
6. Which process is used to deposit metals on glass, ceramic and plastic?
a) Silk plating technique
b) Gas plating technique
c) Electroless plating technique
d) Electroplating technique
c
7. Electroplating technique is suitable for
a) Making conduction films ceramic
b) Coating with considerable thickness
c) Coating without use of electric current
d) Making conduction films of gold or copper
d
8. Which of the following process is involve in thick film technology
a) Screen printing
b) Ceramic firing
c) Silk screening
d) All of the mentioned
c
9. An ancient process used till today for production of circuit films is,
a) Silk Screening technique
b)  Surface Mount Technology
c) Ceramic Printing technique
d) Screen Printing technique
d
10. What is the advantage of using Surface Mount Technology?
a) All of the mentioned
b) Low power consumption
c) Reduces heat dissipation in components
d) Use leaded or leadless components
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Linear Integrated Circuits.
To practice all areas of Linear Integrated Circuits, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Active and Passive Components of IC – 3» Next - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Fabrication of FET 
