1. How many control lines are present in analog to digital converter in addition to reference voltage?
a) Three
b) Two
c) One
d) None of the mentioned
b
1. Start input-tell ADC when to start conversion.
2. EOC- end of conversion. 
2. Find out the integrating type analog to digital converter?
a) Flash type converter
b) Tracking converter
c) Counter type converter
d) Dual slope ADC
d
3. Which type of ADC follow the conversion technique of changing the analog input signal to a linear function of frequency?
a) Direct type ADC
b) Integrating type ADC
c) Both integrating and direct type ADC
d) None of the mentioned
b
4. Which A/D converter is considered to be simplest, fastest and most expensive?
a) Servo converter
b) Counter type ADC
c) Flash type ADC
d) All of the mentioned
c
5. The flash type A/D converters are called as
a) Parallel non-inverting A/D converter
b) Parallel counter A/D converter
c) Parallel inverting A/D converter
d) Parallel comparator A/D converter
d
6. What is the advantage of using flash type A/D converter?
a) High speed conversion
b) Low speed conversion
c) Nominal speed conversion
d) None of the mentioned
a
7. The number of comparator required for flash type A/D converter
a) Triples for each added bit
b) Reduce by half for each added bit
c) Double for each added bit
d) Doubles exponentially for each added bit
c
8. Drawback of counter type A/D converter
a) Counter clears automatically
b) More complex
c) High conversion time
d) Low speed
d
9. Calculate the conversion time of a 12-bit counter type ADC with 1MHz clock frequent to convert a full scale input?
a) 4.095 µs
b) 4.095ms
c) 4.095s
d) None of the mentioned
b
10. In a servo tracking A/D converter, the input voltage is greater than the DAC output signal at this condition
a) The counter count up
b) The counter count down
c) The counter back and forth
d) None of the mentioned
a
11. At what condition error occurs in the servo tracking A/D Converter?
a) Slow change input
b) Rapid change in input
c) No change in input
d) All of the mentioned
b
12. How many clock pulses do a successive approximation converter requires for obtaining a digital output.
a) Twelve
b) Six
c) Eight
d) None of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Linear Integrated Circuits.
To practice all areas of Linear Integrated Circuits, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Basic DAC Techniques – 2» Next - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – A to D Converter – 2 
