1. Depending on the value of input and reference voltage a comparator can be named as
a) Voltage follower
b) Digital to analog converter
c) Schmitt trigger
d) Voltage level detector
d
2. Why clamp diodes are used in comparator?
a) To reduce output offset voltage
b) To increase gain of op-amp
c) To reduce input offset current
d) To protect op-amp from damage
d
3. Find the non-inverting comparator
a
4. How the op-amp comparator should be choosen to get higher speed of operation?
a) Large gain
b) High slew rate
c) Wider bandwidth
d) None of the mentioned
c
5. How to obtain high rate of accuracy in comparator?
a) Input offset
b) High voltage gain
c) High CMRR
d) All of the mentioned
d
6. How to keep the output voltage swing of the op-amp comparator within specific limits?
a) External resistors or diodes are used
b) External zeners or diodes are used
c) External capacitors or diodes are used
d) External inductors or diodes are used
b
7. Zero crossing detectors is also called as
a) Square to sine wave generator
b) Sine to square wave generator
c) Sine to triangular wave generator
d) All of the mentioned
b
8. What is the drawback in zero crossing detectors?
a) Low frequency signal and noise at output terminal
b) High frequency signal and noise at input terminal
c) Low frequency signal and noise at input terminal
d) High frequency signal and noise at output terminal
c
9. State a method to overcome the drawback of zero crossing detectors?
a) Increasing input voltage
b) Use of positive feedback
c) Connect a compensating network
d) None of the mentioned
b
10. Name the comparator that helps to find unknown input.
a) Time marker generator
b) Zero crossing detectors
c) Phase meter
d) Window detector
d
11. Find the instance at which the input can be fed to the op-amp in a three level comparator with LED indicator.
a) When Green LED glow
b) When Yellow LED glow
c) When Red LED glow
d) All of the mentioned
a
12. Find the output voltage at the point V2 from the given circuit.
b
13. Mention the application areas of time marker generator can be used
a) Monoshots
b) SCR
c) Sweep voltage of CRT
d) All of the mentioned
d
14. Which among the following is used to increase phase angle between different voltages?
a) Phase detector
b) Window detector
c) Zero crossing detector
d) None of the mentioned
a
15. For the comparator shown below, determine the transfer curves if an ideal op-amp with VZ1= VZ2=9v.
a
Therefore, VO = ±(VZ+VSat) =± (9+0.7) = ±9.7 v. 
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Linear Integrated Circuits.
To practice all areas of Linear Integrated Circuits, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Triangular and  Sawtooth Wave Generator» Next - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Voltage Limiter and Schmitt Trigger 
