1. Voltage to current converter is also called as
a) Current series positive feedback amplifier
b) Voltage series negative feedback amplifier
c) Current series negative feedback amplifier
d) Voltage series positive feedback amplifier
c
2. Given voltage to current converter with floating load. Determine the output current?
a) 3mA
b) 6mA
c) 4mA
d) 2mA
d
3. Which of the following application uses voltage to current converter?
a) Low voltage dc and ac voltmeter
b) Diode match finding
c) Light emitting diode
d) All of the mentioned
d
4. The op-amp in low voltage DC voltmeter cannot be nullified due to
a) D’Arsonaval meter movement
b) Offset voltage compensating network
c) Selection of switch
d) Gain of amplifier
a
5. What is the maximum input voltage that has to be selected to calibrate a dc voltmeter with a full scale voltage range of 1-13v.
a) ≤ ±14v
b) ≥ ±13v
c) ≤ ±15v
d) = ±14v
a
6. Higher input voltage can be measured in low voltage DC voltmeter using
a) Smaller resistance value
b) Higher resistance value
c) Random resistance value
d) All of the mentioned
b
7. In the diagram given below, determine the deflection of the ammeter with a full scale deflection of 1mA when the switch is at X2kΩ. Consider resistance of the offset voltage compensating network to be 10Ω.
a) Full scale deflection in the ammeter
b) Half scale deflection in the ammeter
c) Quarter scale deflection in the ammeter
d) No deflection occurs in the ammeter
b
Io = Vin/R1= 1v/2kΩ =0.5mA. This means that 2v causes half scale deflection of the ammeter. 
8. How to modify a low voltage DC voltmeter to low voltage ac voltmeter
a) Add a full wave rectifier in the feedback loop
b) Add a half wave rectifier in the feedback loop
b) Add a square wave rectifier in the feedback loop
b) Add a sine wave rectifier in the feedback loop
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Linear Integrated Circuits.
To practice all areas of Linear Integrated Circuits, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – High Frequency Op-Amp Equivalent Circuit» Next - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Voltage to Current Converter with Floating and Grounded Load – 2 
