1) What is the best choice of IC package used for experimental purpose?
a) DIP package
b) Metal can package
c) Flat pack
d) Transistor pack
a
2. What is the general information specified in ordering an IC?
a) Temperature range
b) Device type
c) Package type
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. Find the ordering information for µA741TC.
a) Sprague 741 DIP with Industrial temperature range
b) Intersil 741 DIP with commercial temperature range
c) Fairchilds 741 DIP with commercial temperature range
d) Texas instrument 741 metal can with Industrial temperature range
c
T represents Mini DIP package and C represents Commercial temperature range. 
4. How a Motorola IC with plastic DIP and commercial temperature range is ordered?
a) ICLxxxP -> 0o to 75oc
b) CAxxE -> -55o to +125oc
c) LMxxxxA -> -40o to+85oc
d) MCxxxP -> 0o to 70oc
d
Explantion: The ordering format for a typical Motorola IC is,
MCxxxx –>  Device type
P –> Package type(Plastic DIP)
0o to 70oc –> Temperature range (Commercial). 
5. What does the 1-2-3 numbering system used in National Semiconductor IC denotes
a) Validity in years
b) Temperature range
c) Package type
d) Ordering information
c
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. How does a industrial temperature range device in National Semiconductor IC is represented?
a) LM305
b) LM101
c) LM201
d) All of the mentioned
c
7. Use device identification method to find the IC of Fairchild chip manufactured in the year 1980.
b
8. Dual-In-Line pack is considered to be suitable for mounting because,
a) Easy to handle
b) Fits mounting hardware
c) Inexpensive
d) All of the mentioned
c
9. What is the use of notch and dot in DIP ICs?
a) Determine the pin configuration
b) Designed to represent device type
c) Represent property of IC
d) Find the pin number
d
10. How an eight pin Dual-In-Line Package is shortly named
a) 8p DIP
b) Maxi DIP
c) Mini DIP
d) ES DIP
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Linear Integrated Circuits.
To practice all areas of Linear Integrated Circuits, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Operational Amplifier Internal Circuit – 4» Next - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Integrated Circuits, Types & Manufacturer’s Design – 2 
