1. Strain gage is an example of which device?
a) Transducer
b) Voltage follower
c) Integrator
d) Differentiator
a
2. An instrumentation system does not include
a) Transducer
b) Instrumentation amplifier
c) Automatic process controller
d) Tester
d
3. Transmission line are used for
a) Output signal
b) Input signal
c) Signal transfer
d) All of the mentioned
c
4. The length of the transmission lines are
a) Longer than 10 meters
b) Shorter than 10 meters
c) Equals to 10 meters
d) None of the mentioned
d
5. Why output of transducer is not directly connected to indicator or display?
a) Low level output is produced
b) High level output is produced
c) No output is produced
d) Input is fed directly
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. What are the features of instrumentation amplifier?
a) Low noise
b) High gain accuracy
c) Low thermal and time drift
d) All of the mentioned
d
7. What is the disadvantage of using LH0036 instrumentation op-amp?
a) Extremely stable
b) Relatively expensive
c) Accurate
d) All of the mentioned
b
8. What instrument is used to amplify output signal of transducer
a) Peaking amplifier
b) Instrumentation amplifier
c) Differential amplifier
d) Bridge amplifier
b
9. General purpose op-amps are used in applications as
a) Instrumentation amplifier
b) Differential instrumentation amplifier
c) Inverting instrumentation amplifier
d) Non-inverting instrumentation amplifier
b
10. In an instrumentation amplifier using transducer bridge, which device measure the change in physical energy
a) Resistive transducer
b) Indicating meter
c) Capacitive transducer
d) Inductor circuit
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Linear Integrated Circuits.
To practice all areas of Linear Integrated Circuits, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Summing, Scaling & Averaging Amplifier – 2» Next - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Instrumentation Amplifier – 2 
