1. Which is the most striking feature in monolithic integrated circuit transistor?
a) Collector contact is present at the bottom of IC
b) Collector contact is present at the top of IC
c) Collector contact is absent
d) Collector contact is present on one of the sides of IC
b
2. Why monolithic IC transistor is preferred over discrete planar epitaxial transistor?
a) Due to structural difference
b) Increase in VCE (sat) and collector series resistor
c) Improvement in circuit performance
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. Name the process that is used to overcome the increase in collector series resistance, which occurs due to the presence of collector contact at the top of integrated transistor.
a) Buried n+ layer
b) Buried p+ layer
c) Triple diffused layer
d) Buried epitaxial layer
a
4. What is the reason for using Lateral pnp transistor in Integrated Circuits?
a) Requires simple process control
b) Simultaneous fabrication of pnp and npn transistors
c) Provide good isolation
d) Miniaturization and cost reduction
b
5. Which of the following transistor has the limitation, due to the requirement of additional fabrication steps and design consideration?
a) Vertical pnp transistor
b) Lateral pnp transistor
c) Triple diffused pnp transistor
d) Substrate pnp transistor
c
6. The ‘buried layer’ reduces collector series resistance by providing,
a) A low resistivity current path from n-type layer to n+ contact layer
b) A low resistivity current path from p-type layer to n+ contact layer
c) A high resistivity current path from n-type layer to n+ contact layer
d) A high resistivity current path from p-type layer to n+ contact layer
a
7. At what potential, the substrate of a vertical pnp transistor should be kept to attain good isolation?
a) Same potential
b) Positive potential
c) Different potential
d) Negative potential
d
8. Which method is used in the fabrication of pnp transistor?
a) Vertical substrate pnp
b) Triple diffused pnp
c) Lateral pnp
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. State the correct reason for neglecting pnp transistor.
a) Increase in the series collector resistance of pnp transistor
b) Parasitic capacitance appears between collector and substrate
c) Current gain of pnp transistor is as low as 1.5 to 30
d) None of the mentioned
c
10. The diffusion of collector impurities in npn transistor should be small because,
a) No additional diffusion or masking steps required
b) Bandwidth is controlled by lateral diffusion of p-type impurity
c) Collector need not be kept at negative potential
d) None of the mentioned
d
11. The advantage of Multi-emitter transistor is
a) To reduce fabrication steps
b) To save chip area
c) To lower design consideration
d) To provide linear output
b
12. Which transistor is best suitable to achieve very fast switching in digital circuits?
a) Lateral pnp transistor
b) Schottky transistor
c) Multi-emitter transistor
d) NPN transistor
b
13. Choose the appropriate value of diode to get a speedy diode from the given values of storage time (n) in sec and forward voltage (V γ).
a) n = 56 , V γ = 0.96
b) n = 100 , V γ = 0.92
c) n = 9 , V γ = 0.85
d) n = 53 , V γ = 0.95
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Linear Integrated Circuits.
To practice all areas of Linear Integrated Circuits, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Basic Planar Process – 3» Next - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Active and Passive Components of IC – 2 
