1. Free running multivibrator is also called as
a) Stable multivibrator
b) Voltage control oscillator
c) Square wave oscillator
d) Pulse stretcher
b
2. The output voltage of phase detector is
a) Phase voltage
b) Free running voltage
c) Error voltage
d) None of the mentioned
c
3. At which state the phase-locked loop tracks any change in input frequency?
a) Free running state
b) Capture state
c) Phase locked state
d) All of the mentioned
c
4. Match the list I with list II which represents the three stages of phase locked loop.(PLL)
List I 
 List II 
1.Before input frequency applied
i. PLL-Phase locked state
2.When the input frequency applied
ii.PLL=Free running state
3.After input frequency applied
iii. PLL-Capture mode
a) 1-ii, 2-iii, 3-i
b) 1-iii, 2-ii, 3-i
c) 1-i, 2-ii, 3-iii
d) 1-ii, 2-i, 3-iii
a
5. What is the function of low pass filter in phase-locked loop?
a) Improves low frequency noise
b) Removes high frequency noise
c) Tracks the voltage changes
d) Changes the input frequency
b
6. What is the need to generate corrective control voltage?
a) To maintain the lock
b) To track the frequency change
c) To shift the VCO frequency
d) All of the mentioned
d
7. At what range the PLL can maintain the lock in the circuit?
a) Lock in range
b) Input range
c) Feedback loop range
d) None of the mentioned
a
8. The pull-in time depends on
a) Initial phase and frequency difference between two sign
b) Overall loop gain
c) Loop filter characteristics
d) All of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Linear Integrated Circuits.
To practice all areas of Linear Integrated Circuits, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – 555 Timer as an Astable Multivibrator» Next - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Phase Detector / Comparator 
