1. Which filter type is called a flat-flat filter?
a) Cauer filter
b) Butterworth filter
c) Chebyshev filter
d) Band-reject filter
b
2. Which filter performs exactly the opposite to the band-pass filter?
a) Band-reject filter
b) Band-stop filter
c) Band-elimination filter
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. Given the lower and higher cut-off frequency of a band-pass filter are 2.5kHz and 10kHz. Determine its bandwidth.
a) 750 Hz
b) 7500 Hz
c) 75000 Hz
d) None of the mentioned
b
4. In which filter the output and input voltages are equal in amplitude for all frequencies?
a) All-pass filter
b) High pass filter
c) Low pass filter
d) All of the mentioned
a
5. The gain of the first order low pass filter
a) Increases at the rate 20dB/decade
b) Increases at the rate 40dB/decade
c) Decreases at the rate 20dB/decade
d) Decreases at the rate 40dB/decade
c
6. Which among the following has the best stop band response?
a) Butterworth filter
b) Chebyshev filter
c) Cauer filter
d) All of the mentioned
c
7. Determine the order of filter used, when the gain increases at the rate of 60dB/decade on the stop band.
a) Second-order low pass filter
b) Third-order High pass filter
c) First-order low pass filter
d) None of the mentioned
b
8. Name the filter that has two stop bands?
a) Band-pass filter
b) Low pass filter
c) High pass filter
d) Band-reject filter
a
9. The frequency response of the filter in the stop band.
i. Decreases with increase in frequency
ii. Increase with increase in frequency
iii. Decreases with decrease in frequency
iv. Increases with decrease in frequency
a) i and iv
b) ii and iii
c) i and ii
d) ii and iv
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Linear Integrated Circuits.
To practice all areas of Linear Integrated Circuits, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Active Filters – 1» Next - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – First Order Low Pass Butterworth Filter 
