1. What makes the output voltage equals to zero in practical op-amp?
a) Input offset voltage
b) Output offset voltage
c) Offset minimizing voltage
d) Error voltage
a
2. What happens due to mismatch between two input terminals in an op-amp?
a) Input offset voltage
b) Output offset voltage
c) Bothe the input and output offset voltage
d) None of the mentioned
b
3. Define polarity of the output offset voltage in a practical op-amp?
a) Positive polarity
b) Negative polarity
c) Positive or negative polarity
d) None of the mentioned
c
4. The input offset voltage of 741 op-amp has an absolute maximum value of 6mv, which means
a) Minimum difference between input terminals in 741 op-amp can be large as 6mv DC
b) Minimum difference between input terminals in 741 op-amp can be large as 6mv AC
c) Maximum difference between input terminals in 741 op-amp can be large as 6mv DC
d) Maximum difference between input terminals in 741 op-amp can be large as 6mv AC
c
5. If three different 741 op-amps are taken and the corresponding output offset voltage for each of them is measured. The output voltage in these three op-amps have
a) Same amplitude and polarity
b) Different amplitude and polarity
c) Same amplitude and different  polarity
d) Different amplitude and same polarity
b
6. To reduce the output offset voltage VooT  to zero
a) Input offset voltage compensating network is added at the inverting input terminal
b) Input offset voltage compensating network is added at the non-inverting input terminal
c) Input offset voltage compensating network is added at the output terminal
d) None of the mentioned
d
7. Which of the following op-amp does not need compensating network?
a) 777
b) 741
c) 748
d) All of the mentioned
d
8. Find out the voltage offset null circuit for the 741 op-amp?
b
9. What will the condition of op-amp, before applying any external input
a) Compensated
b) Biased
c) Balanced
d) Zero
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Linear Integrated Circuits.
To practice all areas of Linear Integrated Circuits, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Differential Amplifiers with Multiple Op-Amp – 2» Next - Linear Integrated Circuit Questions and Answers – Input Offset Voltage – 2 
