1. What is the function of a tail of the head-and-tail lambda phage?
a)	Stabilization of phage DNA
b)	Attachment of phage
c)	Release of replicative enzymes
d)	Helps in motility
b
2. How are genes arranged in a lysogenic phage (for example a lambda phage)?
a)	Alternatively
b)	In clusters
c)	On opposite ends
d)	Similar genes at distant positions
b
3. Circularization of the injected linear phage DNA molecule is facilitated by which of the following?
a)	Polyhedral head
b)	Cos sites
c)	Phage tail
d)	Capsid proteins
b
4. By which mechanism does the replication of new lambda DNA molecules are produced in the host bacterium?
a)	Rolling Circle Mechanism
b)	DNA Polymerase Binding
c)	The same mechanism as that of host
d)	Replication fork propagation
a
5. M13 filamentous phage DNA molecule is smaller than the head-and-tail lambda phage.
a)	True
b)	False
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Which of these is not a feature associated with M13 phage?
a)	Doesn’t need genes for insertion into host genome
b)	Capsid constructed of multiple copies of 3 genes
c)	Simpler infection cycle than lambda
d)	Capsid constructed of 15 different proteins
d
7. How does an injection of a filamentous phage (example- M13) DNA into the host bacterium occur?
a)	Via  pilus
b)	Surface attachment
c)	Transformation
d)	Transfection
a
8. Replicative form (RF) refers to what part of the M13 bacteriophage?
a)	M13 genome
b)	Restriction sites
c)	Endonuclease activity
d)	Replication phase
a
9. Phage display technique makes use of which of the following vectors?
a)	M13
b)	Lambda
c)	2 micron circle
d)	BAC
a
10. Which of the following is a positive regulatory gene on the lambda phage genome?
a)	N
b)	O
c)	P
d)	R
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Vector Biology & Gene Manipulation.
To practice Vector Biology Question Bank, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Vector Biology Questions and Answers – Bacteriophages – 1» Next - Vector Biology Questions and Answers – Restriction Endonucleases – 1 
