1. What is an additional feature of M13mp7?
a)	2 antibiotic resistance genes
b)	Bigger size
c)	Multiple cloning sites
d)	Smaller size
c
2. What is a phagemid?
a)	A hybrid vector
b)	Phage vector
c)	Plasmid vector
d)	Viral vector
a
3. What does the M13 fragment in a phagemid contain?
a)	BamHI restriction site
b)	Signal sequences
c)	Origin of replication
d)	Promoter sequence
b
4. Why is a helper phage needed when cloning experiments which a hybrid vector such as Pembl8 is done?
a)	Efficient insertion
b)	Attachment to host
c)	To provide replicative enzymes
d)	Stable transformation
c
5. How can the recombinants of phagemid vector Pembl8 be identified?
a)	Agar plating
b)	Agar + Antibiotic
c)	Agar + X-gal
d)	Minimal media plating
c
6. What is the size of fragments that can be obtained by using a phagemid vector?
a)	1 kb
b)	10 kb
c)	1500 bp
d)	50 kb
b
7. What is the size limit for in vitro packaging of an unmodified lambda vector?
a)	10 kb
b)	52 kb
c)	100 kb
d)	10 bp
b
8. Which non-essential region of the lambda phage can be deleted without impairing viability?
a)	Protein coding
b)	Promoter region
c)	Integration and excision region
d)	Terminator region
c
9. What is the basic difference between a modified (non-essential regions removed) and an unmodified lambda vector?
a)	Gene expression increases
b)	Stable infection
c)	Non- lysogenic cycle
d)	Star activity
c
10. Why is natural selection used to isolate modified lambda that lacks certain restriction sites?
a)	Strains that lack sites are known
b)	Easier than in vitro mutagenesis
c)	There are no restriction sites in lambda
d)	Natural selection is less time consuming
a
11. Why is natural selection used to isolate modified lambda that lacks certain restriction sites?
a)	Strains that lack sites are known
b)	Easier than in vitro mutagenesis
c)	There are no restriction sites in lambda
d)	Natural selection is less time consuming
a
12. Insertion and replacement vectors are modified vectors of which of the following?
a)	Plasmid
b)	Lambda phage
c)	M13 phage
d)	Yeast artificial chromosome
b
13. What type of vector is the lambda-gt10?
a)	Insertion vector
b)	Replacement vector
c)	Hybrid vector
d)	Unmodified lambda vector
a
14. Which property is not associated with a lambda insertion vector?
a)	Non-essential region removed
b)	Two vector arms ligated together
c)	At least one restriction site is present
d)	Expression of the gene can be obtained
d
15. How can identification of recombinants of lambda-gt10 vector be done?
a)	Ampicillin resistance
b)	Lac selection
c)	cI gene insertional inactivation
d)	Agar and X-gal plating
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Vector Biology & Gene Manipulation.
To practice all areas of Vector Biology for Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Vector Biology Questions and Answers – Cloning Vectors for E.Coli – 1» Next - Vector Biology Questions and Answers – Cloning Vectors for E.Coli – 3 
