1. Which is the final step in the construction of a recombinant molecule?
a) Plasmid isolation
b) Gene amplification
c) Restriction digestion
d) Ligation
d
2. Which DNA ligase enzyme is used in genetic engineering?
a) Bacterial ligase
b) T4 ligase
c) Yeast ligase
d) Pseudomonas ligase
b
3. Within the cell, ligase enzyme has the function of repairing any discontinuities that may arise in the double stranded DNA molecule. What are these discontinuities?
a) Absence of nucleotides in 1 strand
b) Missing phosphodiester bond in 1 strand
c) Missing phosphodiester bond in 2 both strands
d) Absence of nucleotides in both strands
b
4. The chemical reaction involved in ligation of two molecules is same as repairing discontinuities.
a) True
b) False
a
5. Which of the following will have more efficient ligation?
a) Sticky ends
b) Blunt ends
c) Blunt ends and high concentration of DNA
d) Blunt ends and low concentration of DNA
a
6. Which of the following is not a method for putting sticky ends to a blunt ended DNA fragment to be cloned?
a) Homopolymer tailing
b) Adaptors
c) Restriction digestion
d) Linkers
c
7. What are Linkers?
a) Short synthetic double stranded DNA sequence
b) Short oligonucleotide sequence of host
c) Short oligonucleotide sequence of vector
d) Short synthetic single stranded DNA sequence
a
8. What is the problem associated with the use of linkers for putting sticky ends to a blunt ended molecule?
a) High ambient temperature requirements
b) Possible cleavage of the DNA molecule itself
c) High cost of synthetic linkers
d) Low compatibility of linkers
b
9. What is the problem associated with adaptors?
a) Shorter and hence improper ligation
b) Less efficient than linkers
c) May self-ligate and hence require restriction
d) Cannot be made synthetically
c
10. Ligation takes place between __________
a) Adaptor and linker
b) Linker and vector
c) 5’-P terminus and 3’-OH terminus
d) Adaptor and vector
c
11. What is the function of a polynucleotide kinase?
a) Removal of the phosphate group from 5’ end
b) Removal of the phosphate group from 3’ end
c) Addition of phosphate group on 5’ end
d) Addition of phosphate group on 3’ end
c
12. Which enzyme is used in homopolymer tailing for producing sticky ends?
a) Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase
b) Alkaline phosphatase
c) Polynucleotide kinase
d) DNA polymerase
a
13. Which of the following statements is true in case of homopolymer tailing for producing sticky ends?
a) Poly(dC) tails to vector, poly(dG) to DNA
b) Poly(dG) tails to vector, poly(dC) to DNA
c) Poly(dC) tails to vector and  DNA
d) Poly(dC) tails to vector and  DNA
a
14. A recombinant DNA molecule held together by base-pairing although not completely ligated can be introduced into the host cell.
a) True
b) False
a
15. Which of the following is not a function of DNA topoisomerase?
a) Removing turns of the double helix DNA
b) Adding turns to the double helix DNA
c) Have nuclease and ligase activity
d) Have polymerase activity
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Vector Biology & Gene Manipulation.
To practice all areas of Vector Biology & Gene Manipulation, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Vector Biology Questions and Answers – Restriction Endonucleases – 2» Next - Vector Biology Questions and Answers – Identification of Recombinants 
