1. In a biphasic system, the thickness of the aqueous layer (δ) around an immobilised enzyme lowers the rate of reaction.
a) True
b) False
a
• When δ is large, it leads to the passage of reactants through aqueous layer due to formation concentration gradient which will be very shallow. This the result of the reactants being less soluble in water.
• If δ is small, the enzyme is freely soluble, causing the reactants from the more concentrated organic phase through the interphase boundary to very low concentrations within the microenvironment of the enzyme.
This shows that the thickness of the aqueous layer around an immobilized enzyme is important and determines the degree of diffusional resistance involved. Thus, lowering the reaction rate. Hence the above statement is true.
2. For immobilized enzymes, the volumetric surface area (A/V) is an important parameter which does not govern which of the following?
a) The overall flux of the substrate to the biocatalytic surface
b) Effectiveness of the enzyme
c) Recovery of the biocatalyst
d) Productivity
c
• The overall flux of the substrate to the biocatalytic surface,
• The effectiveness of the enzyme and
• productivity.
Recovery of the biocatalyst is an advantage of impregnated wet beads along with some others which are as follows:
• Protection of the contained enzyme at higher rates of stirring.
• Allows to be used with low molecular weight hydrophilic coenzymes with the assistance of a coenzyme regenerating process.
• Allowing efficient and continuous use of biphasic PBRs as long as the moving organic phase is saturated with water.
3. Which of this is true for optimizing a two-phase system for enzyme-catalyzed reactions?
a) Protection of the contained enzyme
b) More facile recovery of the biocatalyst
c) The difference between the Log P values of the substrates and the interphase should be as small as possible
d) Allowing efficient and continuous use of biphasic PBRs
c
4. Which of the following rule belongs to optimization of the two-phase system for enzyme-catalyzed reactions?
a) The difference between the Log P values of the products and the organic phase should be as small as possible
b) Allows to be used with low molecular weight hydrophilic coenzymes with the assistance of a coenzyme regenerating process
c) Allowing efficient and continuous use of biphasic PBRs as long as the moving organic phase is saturated with water
d) Allowing efficient and continuous use of biphasic PBRs
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
5. In the biphasic system, which of the following methodology is not used to remove the excess water present?
a) Use of hydrolases
b) Chromatography
c) Use of molecular sieves
d) Vacuum distillation
b
• Use of hydrolases.
• Use of molecular sieves which absorbs water.
• Vacuum distillation, if the organic phase has a high boiling point.
Chromatography is used for separation of a mixture which is dissolved in a fluid called the mobile phase and carrying it through a structure holding another material called the stationary phase. The separation is based on differential partitioning between the mobile and stationary phases.
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Enzyme Technology.
To practice advanced questions and answers on all areas of Enzyme Technology, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Enzyme Technology Questions and Answers – Recent Advances – Equilibria in Biphasic Aqueous-Organic Systems» Next - Enzyme Technology Questions and Answers – Recent Advances – Use of Aqueous 2 Phase Systems 
