1. Coenzyme may be immobilised together with the enzyme and regenerated in situ.
a) True
b) False
a
2. Which of the following is not a coenzyme?
a) NADH
b) ATP
c) Synzyme
d) NADPH
c
3. Which of the following is not true for coenzymes?
a) Coenzymes may be immobilized/regenerated with the use of whole-cell systems
b) Membrane reactors may be used to immobilize the coenzyme
c) They are referred to as artificial enzymes
d) Coenzymes may be derivatized for adequate immobilization and regeneration
c
• Coenzymes may be immobilized/regenerated with the use of whole-cell systems. But, these have lower efficiency and flexibility as compared to immobilised-enzyme systems
• Membrane reactors may be used to immobilize the coenzyme. but the pore size of the reactor must be smaller than the coenzyme diameter, which may be extremely restrictive.
• Coenzymes may be derivatized for adequate immobilization and regeneration. This process activates the coenzymes so that it attaches to the support, but does not interfere with its biological function.
4. Which of the following coenzyme is not derivatized by alkylation of the exocyclic N6-amino nitrogen of the adenine present in it?
a) Papain
b) Coenzyme A
c) NAD+
d) NADP+
a
5. Which of the following are high molecular weight water-soluble derivatives which are used for derivatization of co-enzymes?
a) Dextrans
b) Exocyclic N6-amino nitrogen
c) Polyethyleneimine
d) Polyethylene glycols
b
6. Which of the following system is not used to derivatize coenzymes?
a) Alkylation of the exocyclic N6-amino nitrogen of the adenine moiety present in the coenzymes
b) High molecular weight water-soluble derivatives
c) Derivative of myoglobin acts as an effective natural ascorbate oxidase
d) Enzymic regeneration
c
• Coenzyme derivatization involves the alkylation of the exocyclic N6-amino nitrogen of the adenine moiety present in the coenzymes NAD+, NADP+, NADH, NADPH, ATP and coenzyme A.
• High molecular weight water-soluble derivatives such as dextrans, polyethyleneimine and polyethylene glycols may be used are they cause less diffusional resistance than insoluble coenzyme matrices.
• Enzymic regeneration is advantageous because of its high specificity. Enzymic processes utilizes cheap substrates and readily available enzymes and give non-interfering and easily separated products. Formate dehydrogenase and acetate kinase are the useful examples in present time.
7. Which of the following is an example of regeneration of the derivatized coenzymes by enzymic means?
a) Formate dehydrogenase
b) Exocyclic N6-amino nitrogen of the adenine moiety
c) Dextrans
d) Polyethylene glycol
a
8. What is represented in the following diagram?
a) Formate dehydrogenase
b) Exocyclic N6-amino nitrogen of the adenine moiety
c) Dextrans
d) Acetate kinase
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Enzyme Technology.
To practice all areas of Enzyme Technology, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Enzyme Technology Questions and Answers – Future Prospects – Artificial Enzymes» Next - Enzyme Technology Questions and Answers – Enzyme Preparation and Usage – Sources of Enzymes 
