1. Microbes are preferred to plants and animals as sources of enzymes.
a) True
b) False
a
• They are generally cheaper to produce.
• Their enzyme contents are more predictable and controllable.
• Reliable supplies of raw material of constant composition are more easily arranged.
• Plant and animal tissues contain more potentially harmful materials than microbes.
Hence the above statement is true.
2. Which of the following are the common aims of producers of industrial enzymes and their customers?
a) Economy
b) Effectiveness
c) Screening for new and improved enzymes
d) Safety
c
• Economy
• Effectiveness
• Safety
The development of commercial enzymes is undertaken by a handful of companies which have high skills in screening for new and improved enzymes.
3. Which is not true in case of development of commercial enzymes?
a) Screening for new and improved enzymes
b) Large scale enzyme purifications
c) Economy, effectiveness and safety
d) Dealing with the regulatory authorities
c
• screening for new and improved enzymes,
• fermentation for enzyme production,
• large scale enzyme purifications,
• formulation of enzymes for sale,
• customer liaison, and
• dealing with the regulatory authorities.
The common aims of producers of industrial enzymes and their customers are economy, effectiveness and safety.
4. Source of catalase is ________
a) liver
b) kiwi fruit
c) soybeans
d) bacillus
a
5. Bromelain: Brewing industry:: Chymotrypsin: __________
a) Cheese making industry
b) Leather industry
c) Pharmaceutical industry
d) Detergent industry
b
6. Which of the following enzyme is not used in the food industry?
a) Actinidin
b) Dextranase
c) Asparginase
d) Raffinase
c
• Actinidin is a plant enzyme obtained from kiwi fruit.
• Dextranase is a microbial enzyme obtained from penicillium species.
• Raffinase is a microbial enzyme obtained from saccharomyces species.
Asparginase is a bacterial enzyme obtained from Escherichia coli and is used in the health industry.
7. Which of the following enzyme is not obtained from Aspergillus species?
a) Pullulanase
b) Aminoacylase
c) Lactase
d) Pectinase
a
• Aminoacylase used in pharmaceutical industry.
• Lactase used in dairy industry.
• Pectinase used in drinks industry.
Pullulanase is obtained from Klebsiella species and is used in the starch industry.
8. Which of the following enzyme is not used in a brewery?
a) α-amylase
b) β-amylase
c) Papain
d) β-glucanase
d
9. Which of the following is an intracellular enzyme?
a) Lipase
b) Papain
c) Raffinase
d) Cellulase
c
• Lipase is obtained from pancreas, Rhizopus and Candida species and is used in the food industry.
• Papain is obtained from Pawpaw latex and is used in meat industry.
• Source of cellulase is Trichoderma and is used in waste industry.
10. Which of the following is obtained from Kluyveromyces species?
a) Lipase
b) Lactase
c) Bromelain
d) Rennet
b
11. From which of the following lipases cannot be obtained?
a) Pancreas
b) Saccharomyces
c) Rhizopus
d) Candida
b
12. Which of the following is not obtained from animal pancreas?
a) Chymotrypsin
b) Lipase
c) Catalase
d) Trypsin
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Enzyme Technology.
To practice all areas of Enzyme Technology, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Enzyme Technology Questions and Answers – Future Prospects – Coenzyme Regenerating Systems» Next - Enzyme Technology Questions and Answers – Preparation of Enzymes from Clarified Solution 
