1. Synthetic polymers or oligomers with enzyme-like activities possess two structural entities, a substrate-binding site and a catalytically effective site are referred to as ___________
a) co-factors
b) co-enzymes
c) biosensors
d) synzymes
d
2. Which of the following is not true for synzymes?
a) They are referred to as artificial enzymes
b) They possess two structural entities which are a substrate binding site and a catalytically effective site
c) They do not obey the Miachelis-Menten kinetics
d) Producing catalytic site is difficult
c
• They are referred to as artificial enzymes.
• They possess two structural entities which are a substrate binding site and a catalytically effective site.
• In this case, producing the catalytic site is difficult.
• In this case, producing facility for substrate binding is relatively straightforward.
3. Derivative of myoglobin acts as an effective natural ascorbate oxidase.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Which of the following do not show synzymic properties?
a) Papain
b) Myoglobin
c) Polyglutamic acid
d) Cyclodextrins
a
• Derivative of myoglobin acts as an effective natural ascorbate oxidase and is achieved by attaching (Ru(NH3)5)3+ to three surface histidine residues.
• Polyglutamic acts as an esterase in the same fashion as the acid proteases for the hydrolysis of 4-nitrophenyl acetate.
• Cyclodextrins synthesized from starch by the cyclomaltodextrin glucanotransferase from Bacillus macerans. Synzymic cyclodextrins are usually derivatized in order to introduce catalytically relevant groups.
5. Cyclodextrins are synthesized from starch using __________
a) yeast
b) cyclomaltodextrin glucan transferase
c) B. acidopullulyticus
d) B. Licheniformis
b
6. β-cyclodextrins was not as active as natural transaminases.
a) True
b) False
a
7. Which of the following synzyme has 27% of the activity of a-chymotrypsin against 4-nitrophenyl esters?
a) Primary amines alkylated with 1-iodododecane and 4(5)-chloromethylimidazole
b) Myoglobin achieved by attaching (Ru(NH3)5)3+ to three surface histidine residues
c) C-6 hydroxyl group of β-cyclodextrins was covalently derivatized by an activated pyridoxal coenzyme
d) Polyglutamic acid acts as an esterase in much the same fashion as the acid proteases for the hydrolysis of 4-nitrophenyl acetate
a
8. Which of the following is not a strategy to produce synzymes?
a) Monoclonal antibodies covalently attached to the phosphonate esters which can act as esterases
b) Molecular imprinting of polymers
c) Primary amines alkylated with 1-iodododecane and 4(5)-chloromethylimidazole
d) Synthesis of cyclodextrins from starch by the cyclomaltodextrin glucanotransferase from Bacillus macerans
d
• Monoclonal antibodies that are raised to immunize protein conjugates covalently with phosphonate esters which helps them to act as esterases.
• Molecular imprinting of polymers with the help of transition state analogues to shape polymerizing resins or inactive non-enzymic protein during heat denaturation.
• Primary amines from polyethyleneimine are alkylated with 1-iodododecane and 4(5)-chloromethylimidazole to produce synzyme which has 27% of the activity of α-chymotrypsin against 4-nitrophenyl esters.
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Enzyme Technology.
To practice all areas of Enzyme Technology, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Enzyme Technology Questions and Answers – Future Prospects – Enzyme Engineering» Next - Enzyme Technology Questions and Answers – Future Prospects – Coenzyme Regenerating Systems 
