1. Which of these is of primary importance to the enzyme producer and customer?
a) pH
b) Temperature
c) Denaturation time
d) Activity
d
2. ____________ is an art and is a method used to stabilize enzyme preparations.
a) Chromatography
b) Centrifugation
c) Formulation
d) Filtration
c
3. Which of the following approach is not a key to maintaining enzyme activity?
a) Use of additives
b) Controlled used of covalent modification
c) Accurate, precise, reproducible, linear and free from electrical noise
d) Enzyme immobilization
c
• Use of additives.
• Controlled used of covalent modification.
• Enzyme immobilization.
4. Which of these is used for enzyme stabilization?
a) Potassium hydrogen phosphate
b) Sodium thiosulphate
c) Calcium chloride
d) EDTA
a
5. Pick the odd one out.
a) Glycerol
b) Polyvinyl alcohol
c) Sorbitol
d) Mannitol
b
• By repressing microbial growth due to the reduction in the water activity.
• Formation of protective shells which prevent unfolding processes.
6. Which of these is not a hydrophilic polymer used to stabilize enzymes?
a) Polyvinyl alcohol
b) Polyvinylpyrrolidone
c) Mannitol
d) Hydroxypropylcelluloses
c
• A process of compartmentalization wherein the enzyme-enzyme and enzyme-water interactions are replaced by less potentially denaturing enzyme-polymer interactions.
• By stabilizing the hydrophobic effect within the enzymes.
• By specific chemical modifications of amino acid side chains are possible which may result in stabilization.
7. Which of these is not added as a preservative for solid enzyme preparation?
a) Thiols
b) Starch
c) Lactose
d) Carboxymethylcellulose
a
8. Which of the following is not added as a preservative for liquid enzyme preparation?
a) Antibiotic
b) Benzoic acid esters
c) Thiols
d) Carboxymethylcellulose
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Enzyme Technology.
To practice all areas of Enzyme Technology, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Enzyme Technology Questions and Answers – Preparation of Enzymes from Clarified Solution» Next - Enzyme Technology Questions and Answers – Safety and Regulatory Aspects of Enzyme Use 
