1. Which of the following is not true for the specificity of enzyme action?
a) Specificity refers to discrimination of an enzyme between two competing substrates
b) Specificity of enzymes lies both the reaction they catalyze and the substrates on which they act
c) Specificity makes it possible for a number of enzymes to coexist in the cell without interfering in each other reaction
d) Five types of specificities have been recognized in enzymes
d
• Discrimination of an enzyme between two competing substrates.
• Enzymes specificity lies in both the reaction they catalyze and the substrates on which they act.
• Because of specificity, it is possible for a number of enzymes to coexist in the cell without interfering in each other reaction.
Not five, but three types of spec specificities have been recognized in enzymes.
2. Which of the following is not a type of specificity?
a) Substrate specificity
b) Reaction specificity
c) Koshland specificity
d) Stereo specificity
c
• Substrate specificity, reaction specificity and stereo specificity.
There nothing exists as Koshland specificity. But Koshland induced fit model which explains the enzyme substrate interaction and the rigidity of the active site.
3. Which of the following is not a part of relative substrate specificity?
a) Group specificity
b) Bond specificity
c) Reaction specificity
d) Broad substrate specificity
c
4. Which of the following is an example for group specificity?
a) Trypsin hydrolyzing peptide linkages involving arginine or lysine
b) Lipase hydrolyzing ester bond of lipids
c) Hexokinase phosphorylating one or more kind of hexoses
d) L-lactate dehydrogenase will act only on L-lactic acid, and not D-lactic acid
a
5. Salivary α-amylase cleaving α(1 → 4) glycosidic bond of carbohydrates is an example for which type of specificity?
a) Group specificity
b) Bond specificity
c) Reaction specificity
d) Broad substrate specificity
b
6. Which of the following is an example for broad substrate specificity?
a) Chymotrypsin hydrolyzing peptide bonds attached to aromatic aminoacids
b) D-glucose oxidase acting only on D-glucose and not L-glucose
c) Hexokinase phosphorylating one or more kind of hexoses
d) Lipase hydrolyzes ester bond of lipids
c
7. What is represented in the following diagram?
a) Reaction specificity
b) Substrate specificity
c) Broad substrate specificity
d) Stereo specificity
a
8. Which of these is not an example for stereo specificity?
a) L-lactate dehydrogenase will act only on L-lactic acid, and not D-lactic acid
b) D-glucose oxidase acting only on D-glucose and not L-glucose
c) L-amino oxidase acts only on L-amino acids and not D-aminoacids
d) Hexokinase phosphorylating one or more kind of hexoses
d
• L-lactate dehydrogenase will act only on L-lactic acid, and not D-lactic acid.
• D-glucose oxidase acting only on D-glucose and not L-glucose.
• L-amino oxidase acts only on L-amino acids and not D-aminoacids.
9. L-lactate dehydrogenase: L-lactic acid:: Salivary α-amylase: __________
a) D-aminoacid
b) L-aminoacid
c) α- 1,4 glycoside linkage
d) D-glucose
c
10. Which of the following do not show stereo specificity?
a) L-lactate dehydrogenase
b) Epimerase
c) Salivary α-amylase
d) L-glucose oxidase
b
11. Which type of specificity is represented in the following reaction?
Glucose \(_{\overrightarrow{Glucokinase}}\) Glucose-6-phosphate
a) Relative substrate specificity
b) Absolute substrate specificity
c) Broad substrate specificity
d) Stereo specificity
b
12. Which of the following is not an example of absolute substrate specificity?
a) Glucose to glucose-6-phosphate by glucokinase
b) Hexokinase phosphorylating one or more kind of hexoses
c) Lactose to glucose and galactose by lactase
d) Urea to ammonia by urease
b
• Glucose to glucose-6-phosphate by glucokinase
• Lactose to glucose and galactose by lactase
• Urea to ammonia by urease
Hexokinase phosphorylating one or more kind of hexoses is an example for broad substrate specificity, which means the enzyme acting on more than one structurally related substrates.
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Enzyme Technology.
To practice all areas of Enzyme Technology, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Enzyme Technology Questions and Answers – Enzymes – Proenzyme & Cofactors – 2» Next - Enzyme Technology Questions and Answers – Allosteric Enzyme 
