1. The enzyme company will not be in contact with the customer through which of the following individuals?
a) Salespeople
b) Technical sales people and managers
c) Lab and pilot plant scientist
d) Friends
d
• Salespeople: ensures that the supply continues and that the cost is mutually acceptable to both.
• Technical salespeople and managers: ensures that their product is performing up to specification and often leads to suggestions for the improvement of the process. They have to deal with the problems to do with the enzyme and should able to solve it themselves or may require the services of the third group, the laboratory or pilot plant scientists.
• Laboratory and pilot plant scientists: will spend some time trouble-shooting as and when necessary.
2. Which of the following is not a potential hazard arising from the chemical nature and source of enzymes?
a) Allergenicity
b) Residual microbiological activity
c) Catalysis
d) Chemical toxicity
c
3. Dry enzyme preparations have been replaced to a large extent by liquid preparations.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Which of the following is not Generally Regarded as Safe (GRAS) by the FDA, USA?
a) Cannabidiol
b) Catalase
c) Papain
d) Trypsin
a
5. Which of the following is not a basis for classifying enzymes as regarded by the Food Additives and Contaminants Committee (FACC) of the Ministry of Agriculture, UK?
a) Acceptable for use in food
b) There should be a market for the biosensor
c) Definite or probable toxicity and which ought not to be permitted for use in food
d) It is not possible to express an opinion as to their acceptability for use in food
b
• Group A:  Substances are acceptable for use in food.
• Group B:  Substances are provisionally acceptable for use in food but about which further information must be made available within a specified time for review.
• Group C:  Substances are permitted for use in food until adequate evidence of their safety has been provided to establish their acceptability.
• Group D:  Substances are not to be permitted for use in food.
• Group E: Substances are not possible to express an opinion as to their acceptability for use in food.
6. Group A: Substances are acceptable for use in food:: Group B: ____________
a) Substances are not to be permitted for use in food
b) Substances are not possible to express an opinion as to their acceptability for use in food
c) Substances are provisionally acceptable
d) Substances are permitted for use in food until adequate evidence of their safety has been provided to establish their acceptability
c
7. Group B: Substances are provisionally acceptable:: Group C: _________
a) Substances are permitted for use in food until adequate evidence of their safety has been provided to establish their acceptability
b) Substances are acceptable for use in food
c) Substances are not to be permitted for use in food
d) Substances are not possible to express an opinion as to their acceptability for use in food
a
8. Pick the odd one out.
a) Bacillus subtilis
b) Aspergillus Niger
c) Mucor Javanicus
d) Bacillus Licheniformis
d
9. Which of the following does not belong Class bin8 microorganisms?
a) Bacillus Stearothermophilus
b) Bacillus Coagulans
c) Trichoderma Reesei
d) Klebsiella Inaerogenes
c
10. Pick the odd one out.
a) Mucor miehei
b) Rhizopus Oryzae
c) Streptomyces albus
d) Penicillium emersonii
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Enzyme Technology.
To practice all areas of Enzyme Technology, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Enzyme Technology Questions and Answers – Enzyme Preparation for Sale» Next - Enzyme Technology Questions and Answers – Enzymes – Proenzyme & Cofactors – 1 
