1. ___________ catalyze the reaction by accepting a proton.
a) Acid
b) Entrapment
c) Enzyme
d) Bases
d
2. Which of the following is not true for acid base catalysis?
a) Bases catalyze the reaction by accepting a proton
b) Bases increases the reaction rate by increasing the nucleophilic character of the attacking group
c) To make reactants proximal to each other
d) Specific hydroxide ion catalysis of reaction in water is an example of this type of catalysis
c
• Bases catalyze the reaction by accepting a proton, whereas acids by donating a proton.
• Bases increases the reaction rate by increasing the nucleophilic character of the attacking group.
• Specific hydroxide ion catalysis of reaction in water is an example of this type of catalysis. The rate law will have two terms: unanalyzed rate and hydroxide catalyzed term.
3. The reaction in the diagram belongs to which type of catalysis?
a) Strain distortion and conformational change
b) Approximation catalysis
c) Acid base catalysis
d) Covalent catalysis
c
4. Which of the following is not true for strain distortion and conformational change?
a) Bases increases the reaction rate by increasing the nucleophilic character of the attacking group
b) The strain in the starting material and release of that strain provides rate acceleration in chemical reactions
c) This experiment was carried out by Westheimer and his colleagues
d) Rate of hydrolysis of phosphate esters in two compounds was explained by this theory
a
• The strain in the starting material and release of that strain provides rate acceleration in chemical reactions.
• This experiment was carried out by Westheimer and his colleagues.
• Rate of hydrolysis of phosphate esters in two compounds was explained by this theory. The ring opening of cyclic example on hydrolysis has relative rate of 108 fold faster than acyclic example.
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
5. Which of the following is not true for strain distortion and conformational change?
a) Change in conformation 3D structure of a protein from low activity form to high activity form
b) To make reactants proximal to each other
c) Intrinsic interaction energy and geometric distortions are involved
d) ES complex is selectively destabilized
b
• Change in conformation 3D structure of protein from low activity form to high activity form. Hence strain and distortion effects are important in enzymatic catalysis.
• Intrinsic interaction energy is used to accelerate catalysis. Whereas, geometric distortions of bond angles in bound substrate or steric compression has some effect on destabilization of ES complex.
• ES complex is selectively destabilized, if the destabilization forces are released in transition state.
6. Which of the following statement is not true for catalysis by approximation?
a) Change in conformation 3D structure of protein from low activity form to high activity form
b) To make reactants proximal to each other
c) This proximity raises effective concentration over that of the reactants free in solution and lead to rate acceleration
d) To quantify some proximity effects, model studies were carried out
a
• To make reactants proximal to each other as they will be at the active site.
• This proximity raises effective concentration over that of the reactants free in solution and lead to rate acceleration.
• To quantify some proximity effects, model studies were carried out.
7. Which of the following is not involved in covalent catalysis?
a) Bases which catalyze the reaction by accepting a proton
b) Electron rich nucleophilic function group of amino acid side chain
c) Electron deficient electrophilic portion of substrate
d) Acylated, phosphorylated or glycosylated enzyme nucleophile as covalent intermediate
a
• Electron rich nucleophilic function group of amino acid side chain.
• Electron deficient electrophilic portion of substrate.
• Acylated, phosphorylated or glycosylated enzyme nucleophile as covalent intermediate.
“Bases which catalyze the reaction by accepting a proton.” These are involved in acid base catalysis.
8. Which of the following is not true for covalent catalysis?
a) A number of coenzymes for covalent adducts generating new electrophilic groups which can function as electron sink
b) These adduct forming coenzymes leads to increase in rate acceleration
c) About 100 enzymes show covalent intermediates during catalysis
d) Hydrolysis of acetyl imidazole is an example of this type of catalysis
d
• A number of coenzymes for covalent adducts generating new electrophilic groups which can function as electron sink.
• These adduct forming coenzymes leads to increase in rate acceleration by route low energy, stabilized, substrate derived carbonions.
• About 100 enzymes show covalent intermediates during catalysis.
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Enzyme Technology.
To practice all areas of Enzyme Technology, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Enzyme Technology Questions and Answers – Enzyme Assay Techniques» Next - Enzyme Technology Questions and Answers – Clinical Significance of Amylase, Transaminase and Proteinases 
