1. A process of electroplating, in which metals ions from the solutions are deposited on the cathode as a thin film in the presence of an applied external field is known as____________
a) Electroless deposition
b) Cathodic deposition
c) Anodic oxidation
d) Thermal oxidation
b
2. For Cathodic deposition which of the following statements is appropriate?
a) The charge is not balanced in the process of Cathodic deposition
b) Esterification take place in the electrolyte solution
c) The charge is balanced in the process of Cathodic deposition
d) Oxidation and reduction take place in the electrolyte solution but not in the electrodes
c
3. What is the factor that differentiates between Electroless deposition and Cathodic deposition?
a) Nature of electrolyte
b) Cathode
c) External field
d) Anode
c
4. What should be the nature of the material of the substrates on which the deposition take place in Cathodic deposition?
a) Non metallic
b) Metallic
c) Plastic
d) Wooden
b
5. Which of the following can be used for producing oxide films on their surfaces during anodic oxidation?
a) La, Ce, Pr, Nd
b) He, Ne, Ar, Kr
c) Nh, Fl, Mc, Lv
d) Al, Ta, Nb, Ti
d
6. The equilibrium thickness in the anodic oxidation process depends on which of the following factor?
a) Nature of electrolyte
b) Amount of electrolyte
c) Magnitude of the applied field
d) Weight of the electrode
c
7. Which of the following process take place in the presence of required temperature?
a) Anodic oxidation
b) Cathodic oxidation
c) Electroless deposition
d) Thermal deposition
d
8. Chemical vapour deposition is a method which is used to obtain which of the following substance?
a) Semiconductors
b) Non conducting polymers
c) Conducting compounds
d) Crystalline semiconductor
d
9. In the chemical vapour deposition the films formed are formed by decomposition of what kind of substances?
a) Liquid molecules
b) Conducting polymers
c) Gaseous molecules
d) Solid molecules
c
10. For the reaction given below which of the following statements is correct?
           2SiI2&rlarr;SiI4 + Si
a) The reaction decreases to the left hand side with decreasing temperature
b) The reaction increases to the right hand side with decreasing temperature
c) The reaction decreases to the right hand with decreasing temperature
d) The reaction increases to the left hand side with decreasing temperature
b
11. In the process of vacuum evaporation, which of the following substrate can be used?
a) Ceramics, glass, silicon
b) Plastics
c) Amorphous solids
d) F-block elements
a
12. Which of the following factor is taken care while selecting the container in the process of vacuum evaporation?
a) Chemically reactive
b) Withstand low temperature
c) Withstand high temperature
d) Conducting
c
13. State which of the following is correct regarding the process of vacuum evaporation?
a) The surface of the substrate should be thoroughly cleaned
b) The substrate should not be used at all
c) Container used in the process should be chemically active with evaporation
d) The source material used should be made up of glass or diamond
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Solid State Chemistry.
To practice all areas of Solid State Chemistry, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Solid State Chemistry Questions and Answers – Electrochemical Reduction Methods» Next - Solid State Chemistry Questions and Answers – Growth of Single Crystals 
