1. In electrochemical reduction method, one of the species present  in the melt constituents during electrolysis undergoes______________
a) Reduction
b) Methylation
c) Carboxylation
d) Hydrolysis
a
2. Which of the following is the main component required to carry out the process of electrolysis?
a) AC current
b) Metal vessel
c) Wires
d) DC current
d
3. During electrochemical reduction method, the melt constituents are composed of which of the following materials?
a) Non metal oxide, alkali nitride, sulphide
b) Metal nitride, nonmetal halide, carbide
c) Nonmetal sulphide, alkali carbide, nitride
d) Metal oxide, alkali borate, alkali halide
d
4. Which of the following compound is formed when CaTiO3, CaCl2 undergoes electrolysis, during the process of electrochemical reduction?
a) Ca4Ti7O6
b) CaTi2O4
c) CaTiO
d) CaTi9O3
b
5. Which of the following compounds is formed when Na2MoO3, MoO3 undergoes electrolysis?
a)	Na2Mo3
b)	Na3Mo7
c)	MoO2
d)	Nab2O
c
6. Which one of the following options shows the property of an electrolyte that can be used in the electrolysis process?
a) Non conducting
b) Conducting
c) Solid conductor
d) Solid non conductor
b
7. Which of the following statements is appropriate for the electrodes to be used in the electrolytic process?
a) Electrodes provide necessary energy to create or discharge the ions during electrolysis
b) Electrodes are the ion conducting polymer that contains free ions to carry the current
c) Electrodes are the solid conducting materials which allows to carry the current during electrolysis
d) Electrodes provide  physical interface between the electrolyte and electrical circuit that provides energy
d
8. For the process of electrolysis which of the following statements is appropriate?
a) Oxidation occurs at the anode and reduction occurs at the cathode
b) Oxidation occurs at the cathode and reduction occurs at the anode
c) Oxidation occurs at the anode and reduction doesn’t take place
d) Reduction occur at the cathode and oxidation doesn’t take place
a
9. What is the first law of electrolysis according to which the electrolytic processes take place?
a) Ohm’ s law
b) Henry’s law
c) Faraday’s law
d) Einstein’s equation
c
10. Which of the following states the second law of electrolysis reaction?
a) Henry’s law
b) Einstein equation
c) Archimedes principle
d) Faraday’s law
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Solid State Chemistry.
To practice all areas of Solid State Chemistry, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Solid State Chemistry Questions and Answers – Modification of Existing Structures by Ion Exchange and Intercalation Reactions» Next - Solid State Chemistry Questions and Answers – Preparation of Thin Films 
