1. For the preparation of polycrystalline solids (i.e. powder), a mixture of solid starting materials directly react with each other in the solid state. What is the range of the temperature usually required for the solids to react together in Celsius?
a)	25 to 37
b)	1000 to 1500
c)	-25 to 0
d)	2000 to 3000
b
2. What are the major important factors for the solid state reactions?
a)	Size of the particles
b)	Mechanical properties of solids
c)	Thermodynamic and kinetic factors
d)	Environmental factors
d
3. In the solid state reaction, which mechanism describes the reaction between MgO and Al2O3 for the formation of MgAl2O4?
a)	Mannich reaction
b)	Aromic ion mechanism
c)	Wagner mechanism
d)	Witting reaction
c
4. In the solid state reaction when MgO and F2O3 reacts to form MgFe2O4,it is clear found that the interfaces moved in the ratio of 1:2.7,close to the ideal value 1:3.This is can be described by which of the following mechanism in which the movement of the interfaces is used as a marker?
a)	Kirkedall Effect
b)	Grignard Reaction
c)	Michael Reaction
d)	Aldol Reaction
a
5. For the formation of ZnFe2O4 spinel which method can be used in order to achieve high degree of homogenization?
a)	Distillation method
b)	Vaporization method
c)	Coprecipitation method
d)	Crystallization method
c
6. For the solid state syntheses of ferrite spinels, it is ______________ for the precursor methods to yield phases of accurate stoichiometry
a)	Important
b)	Not necessary
c)	Controllable
d)	Meaningless
a
7. What is the ignition temperature required for the synthesis of Manganese Chromite MnCr2O4, a chromite spinel during the precursor method in degree Celsius?
a)	37
b)	-37
c)	1100
d)	3000
c
8. The appropriate relation between the surface area of any solid with that of the particle size can be stated as
a)	Surface area of any solid increases with increase in particle size
b)	Surface area of any solid is always equal to the particle size
c)	Surface area of any solid increases with decrease in particle size
d)	Surface area of any solid doesn’t depend at all on the particle size
c
9. During the reactivity of solids, two stages that may usually be identified are Nucleation of the product and its subsequent growth. When is nucleation facilitated?
a)	When there is a structural similarity between the products
b)	When there is structural similarity between the reactants
c)	When there is structural dissimilarity between the product and the reactant
d)	When there is structural similarity between the product and the reactant
d
10. What is the relation between Topotactic reaction and epitactic reactions?
a)	Topotactic reactions are less specific than epitactic reactions
b)	Topotactic reactions are equally specific than epitactic reactions
c)	Topotactic reactions are more specific than epitactic reactions
d)	Topotactic reactions can’t be related to epitactic reactions
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Solid State Chemistry.
To practice all areas of Solid State Chemistry, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
» Next - Solid State Chemistry Questions and Answers – Crystallization of Solutions, Melts, Glasses and Gels 
