1. The diagram given below represents which of the following method?
a) Bridgman method
b)  Stockbarger method
c) Czochralski method
d) Zone melting method
c
2. In the process of Czochralski method which of the following relation is appropriate between the melt and the growing crystals?
a) Melt and the growing crystals are usually not related to each other
b) Melt and the growing crystals are usually rotated counterclockwise
c) Melt and the growing crystals are usually rotated clockwise
d) Melt and the growing crystals are usually kept at a constant position
b
3. Which of the following statements is appropriate for Stockbarger method?
a) Solidification is achieved by passing the melt through a concentration gradient
b) Solidification is achieved by passing the melt through a temperature gradient
c) Liquefaction is achieved by passing the melt through a concentration gradient
d) Liquefaction is achieved by passing the melt through a temperature gradient
b
4. Which of the following statements describes best the Bridgman method?
a) Melt is outside the temperature furnace, solidification begins at the hotter end
b) Melt is inside the temperature furnace, solidification occurs at the cooler end
c) Melt is inside the temperature furnace, solidification occurs at the hotter end
d) Solidification is achieved by passing the melt through a temperature gradient
b
5.  In the zone melting method _____________ of the charge is melted at any one time. Fill up the correct option for the blank space from the choices given below.
a) Large part
b) Small part
c) Solid part
d) Anionic part
b
6. Which one of the following principle has been used in the zone melting method?
a) Impurities concentrate in the solid than in liquid phase
b) Impurities concentrate in the liquid phase than in gaseous phase
c) Impurities concentrate in the liquid phase than in the solid phase
d) Impurities concentrate in the gaseous phase than in the solid phase
c
7. Which one of the following statements is correct for precipitation method?
a) Growth of the crystal from a solvent of same composition to the crystals
b) Growth of the crystal from the solute of same composition to the crystal
c) Growth of the crystal from the gaseous species of different composition to the crystal
d) Growth of the crystal from a solvent of different composition to the crystals.
d
8. In the precipitation method for the growth of the crystal, the solvent melts are often known as___________
a) Electrolyte
b) α-particle
c) β- particle
d) Fluxes
d
9. When was the Verneuil flame fusion method first used?
a) 1207
b) 2016
c) 1503
d) 1904
d
10. Which of the following method has been used to prepare the single crystals of CaO using plasma torch?
a) Stockbarger method
b) Zone melting method
c) Verneuil flame fusion method
d) Bridgman method
c
11. What is the advantage of using Czochralski, Bridgman- Stockbarger and Verneuil method?
a) Gives small crystals
b) High tech apparatus
c) Rapid growth rates
d) Uses plasma torch
c
12. What is the disadvantage of using a solution growth method for the growth of the crystals?
a) Rapid growth rates
b) Simple apparatus
c) Slow growth rates
d) Isothermal conditions
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Solid State Chemistry.
To practice all areas of Solid State Chemistry, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Solid State Chemistry Questions and Answers – Preparation of Thin Films» Next - Solid State Chemistry Questions and Answers – High Pressure and Hydrothermal Methods 
