1. Which of the following option is appropriate for the TGA and DTA?
a) TGA and DTA measures only weight
b) TGA measures only weight while DTA measures other effects
c) TGA and DTA measures only temperature
d) TGA measures only temperature while DTA measures other effects
b
2. In the schematic DTA sequence having reversible and irreversible changes, starting with the hydrated material, which of the following steps occurs first on heating?
a) Esterification
b) Methylation
c) Rehydration
d) Dehydration
d
3. On studying the reversible process during DTA which of the following is observed on both heating and cooling?
a) Esterification
b) Hysteresis
c) Methylation
d) Carboxylation
b
4. Which one of the following options is not true for hysteresis?
a) It depends on the nature of the material
b) It depends on the structural change involved
c) It doesn’t depend on the experimental conditions
d) It doesn’t depend on the concentration of the electrode
c
5. In the application of DTA and DSC which of the following parameters is measured for the glasses?
a) Concentration of the glass
b) Solubility of the glass
c) Cooling temperature
d) Transition temperature
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. IN refractories, transitions such as α⇄β quartz or quartz ⇄ cristobalite have which of the following effect?
a) Nasser’s effect
b) Crystal effect
c) Dislocation effect
d) Deleterious effect
d
7. DTA can be used for which of the following process?
a) Line positions of the crystals
b) Mechanical properties of the crystals
c) Phase diagrams
d) Catalytic properties of enzymes
c
8. For the decomposition of the anhydrous calcium oxalate, which of the following steps occur?
a) Intermediates, transition state, product
b) Intermediates, anhydrous oxalate, calcium oxysalts
c) Intermediates, aqueous hydrates, calcium hydroxides
d) Intermediates, anhydrous calcium oxalate, calcium carbonate
d
9. A rapid TGA method is used for which of the following process?
a) Decomposition of polymers exothermally
b) Decomposition of enzymes exothermally
c) Decomposition of crystals endothermally
d) Decomposition of reactions isothermally
d
10. Which of the following parameters can be used, using the DSC and DTA cells?
a) Catalytic properties of enzyme
b) Elasticity of crystals
c) Enthalpy of substances
d) Line positions of phases
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Solid State Chemistry.
To practice all areas of Solid State Chemistry, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Solid State Chemistry Questions and Answers – Differential Thermal Analysis and Differential Scanning Calorimetry» Next - Solid State Chemistry Questions and Answers – X-rays and their Generations 
