1. Which protein mentioned below can reverse central dogma?
a) Ribosome
b) Restriction Endonuclease
c) Reverse Transcriptase
d) RNA Polymerase
c
2. The catalytic activity resides in which subunit of RNA polymerase?
a)  β′ (156 kDa)
b) β (151 kDa)
c) α (37 kDa)
d) σ70 (70 kDa)
a
3. What is the direction in which the transcript produced by RNA polymerase grows?
a) 3’->5’ direction on 3’->5’ strand
b) 5’->3’ direction on 5’->3’ strand
c) 3’->5’ direction on 5’->3’ strand
d) 5’->3’ direction on 3’->5’ strand
d
4. In an experiment you use RNA polymerase without its sigma factor for transcription. What will be the result that you observe?
a) More transcription
b) Less transcription
c) More specific transcription
d) More random transcription
d
5. In an experiment you mutate the consensus sequence at the -10 box. You observe the rate of transcription reduces. Now you make complementary mutation to the sigma factor. What will you observe?
a) Further decrease in transcription rate
b) Increase in transcription rate
c) Original transcription rate
d) Increase in rate of random transcription
c
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. You wanted to isolate active RNA polymerase (with a part of the transcript associated with it ) from cellular mix. For this, you perform an immunoprecipitation with anti sigma antibody. Then you check the precipitate. What will you observe?
a) RNA polymerase with transcript
b) RNA polymerase without transcript
c) Only antibody
d) DNA with associated RNA polymerase and a transcript
b
7. Which part of sigma factor associates with -10box?
a) 1.2
b) 2.4
c) 4.4
d) 4.2
b
8. You want to find out which of the consequent gene X or Y is being transcribed. For this you do a hybridization competition analysis and plot the radioactivity curve with increasing concentration of the competitor unlabelled mRNA. If the transcribed gene was X, which observation fits your result?
a) The radioactivity of y decreases while that of x remains the same
b) The radioactivity of x decreases while that of y remains the same
c) The radioactivity of x and y decreases
d) The radioactivity of y decreases while x increases
b
9. Which of these is the 1st event to take place during transcription initiation?
a) Formation of a closed initiation complex
b) Formation of open initiation complex
c) Formation of absorptive transcript
d) Promoter clearance
b
10. The catalytic unit of RNA polymerases when placed properly during initiation is just over _________
a) -1 site
b) 0 site
c) +1 site
d) – 10 site
c
11. In an experiment you mutate the C terminal domain of alpha subunit of the RNA polymerase. What will you expect to see?
a) Transcription is absent
b) Transcription is at random sites
c) Transcription is less
d) Transcription is more
c
12. Mutations as far as 100 base pairs upstream to +1 site will also affect the transcription rate.
a) True
b) False
a
13. In an experiment you add increasing amount of sigma factor to a mixture of DNA fragment and core polymerase in vitro. You also add [14C]ATP and  [γ-32P]ATP in the mixture and check the rate of incorporation. Results show that the incorporation of both of this labels increase on adding more sigma factor. What will you conclude from your observation?
a) Sigma confers specificity and increases transcription rate
b) Sigma increases initiation and elongation rate
c) Sigma increases initiation of transcription rate
d) Sigma causes faster elongation
b
14. In an experiment, you wanted to see which mutation will have worse effect on transcription. In the 1st set you deleted 94 amino acids from the C-terminus and in the 2nd set you replace the 265th C-terminal arginine to cystine. Which in your opinion will have the worst effect?
a) 94 amino acid mutant
b) 265th amino acid mutant
c) Both will have similar negative effect
d) No visible effect on rate of transcription
c
15. Which cation is placed in the catalytic subunit of RNA polymerase?
a) Zn2+
b) Mn2+
c) Mg2+
d) Fe3+
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Cytogenetics.
To practice all areas of Cytogenetics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Cytogenetics Questions and Answers – DNA Replication Eukaryotes – 2» Next - Cytogenetics Questions and Answers – Transcription in Prokaryotes : Elongation 
