1.  If you study T4 bacteriophage transcription with holoenzyme which genes will you expect to be transcribed?
a) Immediate early
b) Early
c) Delayed
d) Late
a
2. You transcribe a gene and obtain mRNA. To detect which strand is transcribed you replicate each strand in vitro and use the newly synthesized strand for hybridization with mRNA. If mRNA hybridize with the newly replicated strand from 1st strand then the gene transcribed was in ________
a) 1st strand
b) 2nd strand
c) Same copy in both strands
d) Dispersed
b
3. When sigma subunit dissociates from the RNA polymerase what happens to the DNA binding clamp of the core?
a) It opens again
b) It closes again
c) It enters a semi open stage
d) It is phophorylated and ubiquitination occurs
d
4. In an experiment you wrongly added Rifampicin antibiotic to Rifampicin sensitive bacteria. You try to correct your mistake by adding more core subunits (resistant to Rifampicin) to your mixture. What would you expect to see?
a) Normal transcription to restart
b) Transcription will restart but it will be non-specific as you added core enzyme
c) Impaired transcription with more abortive transcripts
d) No transcription
a
5. Which is the primary sigma factor in Bacillus subtilis?
a) σ70
b) σ43
c) σ35
d) σ32
b
6. What is the function of 1st subunit of sigma factor in σ70 and σ43?
a) It helps to bind sigma to DNA
b) It helps to bind sigma to core beta subunit
c) It helps to bind sigma to core alpha subunit
d) It prevents sigma to bind to DNA
d
7. Loosening the binding between polymerase and non-specific site is important to confer higher specificity. In Bacillus subtilis what is responsible for this action?
a) Sigma factor
b) Alpha subunit
c) Beta subunit
d) Delta subunit
d
8. We know that region 2.4 of sigma factor binds DNA at -10box. What is the function of 2.1?
a) It is a flexible loop with no known function
b) It binds -35box
c) It binds RNA polymerase
d) It binds region 4.1 to give sigma its specific structure and function
c
9. Which DNA binding domain is seen in region 4.2 of sigma factor?
a) Zinc fingers
b) Helix turn helix
c) Leucine zipper
d) Beta barrel
b
10. Which sigma factor is bound to Rse A?
a) σD
b) σG
c) σF
d) σE
d
11. You artificially increase the level of σ32 in an E. coli culture. What will you expect to see?
a) rpo H transcription permanently inhibited
b) cdc transcription constitutively turned on
c) rpo H temporarily activated
d) cdc 6 permanently turned off
c
12. If a bacteria is facing lack of carbon sources in the media, which sigma factor concentration is expected to increase?
a) Sigma E
b) Sigma S
c) Sigma 70
d) Sigma 32
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Cytogenetics.
To practice all areas of Cytogenetics Problems, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Cytogenetics Questions and Answers – Transcription in Prokaryotes : Termination» Next - Cytogenetics Questions and Answers – Operons : Lac and Ara 
