1. In case of eukaryotes replication initiates at ________
a) TATA
b) CpG islets
c) AUG
d) ARS
d
2. Here are names of some factors necessary for prokaryotic replication. Which of these or their homologue is unnecessary for eukaryotes?
a) Dna G
b) Dna b
c) Beta clamp
d) SSB
a
3. You wanted to find out the importance of the DNA polymerases. So, you mutated the polymerases one by one and checked for survival. In which of these mutant cases will you see least survival rate?
a) Alpha
b) Beta
c) Delta
d) Eta
a
4. You design a circular ssDNA with a labeled RNA primer (alpha-P32 labeling). You add polymerase epsilon and required enzymes for replication to the fragment. What will you expect to see on autoradiography after gel electrophoresis?
a) Single labeled band with some labeling at the bottom region
b) Two labeled band one much lower than the other with labeling at the bottom region
c) No band but labeling at the bottom
d) Two labeled band one much lower than the other with no labeling at the bottom
d
5. You design a plasmid with a gene for Histidine synthesis and a fragment containing ARS. You introduce it yeast culture and try to grow then in Histidine deficit media. What will be your observation?
a) No growth
b) One or two colonies
c) Rapid growth with many colonies
d) Normal growth with countable colonies
c
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Deletion of which domain of ARS would give the least replication rate in eukaryotes?
a) A domain
b) B1 domain
c) B2 domain
d) B3 domain
a
7. Which subunit in MCM is not phosphorylated in MCM after initiation is triggered?
a)  1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 7
b
8. You are given a DNA fragment with a CBD lesion. Which polymerase(s) will you use to replicate this fragment without taking care of the error?
a) ζ (zeta), η (eta)
b) η (eta), ) θ (theta)
c) θ (theta), κ (kappa)
d) κ (kappa),θ (theta)
b
9. We know that Beta clamp in bacteria has two subunits and takes the shape of a ring. Which of this will be characteristic of PCNA which is a beta clamp homologue for eukaryotes?
a) Two subunits forming ring
b) Three subunits forming ring
c) Four subunits forming figure 8 like structure
d) Four subunits forming a larger ring
b
10. What is the function of RFC in eukaryotic replication?
a) Catalytic subunit
b) SSB
c) Clamp loader
d) Primase
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Cytogenetics.
To practice all areas of Cytogenetics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Cytogenetics Questions and Answers – DNA Replication Prokaryotes» Next - Cytogenetics Questions and Answers – DNA Replication Eukaryotes – 2 
