1. Which of the following defines a food additive?
a) Substance which is/ may become a part of food
b) A substance or a mixture of substances which is present in food as a result of any aspect of production, processing, storage or packaging
c) A substance, the intended use of which results or may reasonably be expected to result in its becoming a component or otherwise affecting the characteristics of any food with certain exceptions
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. Which of the following terms/ food items are NOT included in the definition of a food additive?
a) Food items that find their way accidentally or unintentionally
b) Pesticides, color additives
c) New animal drugs or any substance used in accordance with a sanction or approval granted prior to effective date of food additives amendment of 1958
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. Which of the following is a use of food additive?
a) Maintenance of nutritional quality of food and providing essential aids in food processing
b) Enhancement of keeping quality or stability with resulting reduction in food losses
c) Making food attractive to the consumer in a manner which does not lead to deception
d) All of the mentioned
d
4. Which of the following undesirable quality pertains to the undesirable use of additives?
a) To disguise the use of faulty processing and handling techniques
b) To deceive consumers and result in a substantial reduction of the nutritive value of the food
c) When the desired effect can be obtained by good manufacturing practices which are economically feasible
d) All of the mentioned
d
5. Which of the following is a function of a chemical additive?
a) Preservation
b) Serve as nutritional supplement
c) Color modifiers
d) All of the mentioned
d
6. Which of the following chemical additive is banned in the United States and in most of the other countries?
a) Brandy
b) Olestra
c) Baking Soda
d) None of the mentioned
b
7. In canning, if the air in the head space is displaced with nitrogen, the gas is considered as a chemical preservative added to the food.
a) True
b) False
b
8. Statement 1: Sodium Sulphite is banned in certain countries like USA because it has preserving effect on animal tissues but with the combination of other agents.
Statement 2: Sulphuring dried fruits helps in controlling microbial and insect activity.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, False
d) False, True
b
9. Sodium chloride which is the formula of common salt in large quantities is poisonous to man as is carbon dioxide.
a) True
b) False
a
10. Which of the following food additive can be used for mold inhibition/ killing?
a) Propionates
b) Sulphur dioxide
c) Propionates & Sulphur dioxide
d) Neither of the mentioned
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Engineering.
To practice all areas of Food Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Engineering Questions and Answers – Principles of Food Pickling and Curing-2» Next - Food Engineering Questions and Answers – Principles of Chemical Preservation of Food-2 
