1. Which of the following is used for shredding meat in the food industry?
a) Ball mill
b) Hammer mill
c) Knife cutter
d) All of the mentioned
c
2. Which of the following food operation does NOT use the principle of size reduction for its operation?
a) Slaughtering of birds for food
b) Trimming of fish to remove inedible portions
c) Mincing of meat
d) None of the mentioned
d
3. 4 screens can separate _____ differently sized particles.
a) 3
b) 4
c) 5
d) 6
c
4. Statement 1: As mesh size increases, the aperture size decreases.
Statement 2: In British standards, the ratio of the aperture size of two consecutive screens is a ratio of 1.412.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, False
d) False, True
a
5. With respect to the Tyler series, which of the following is true?
a) The ratio of one mess size to the intermediate mesh will have the ratio of 4th root of 2
b) Intermediate messes cannot be accommodated in the Tyler series
c) Intermediate meshes can be accommodated in British series only
d) None of the mentioned
a
Join [email protected]
6. In differential screen analysis, for calculating the particle size of the food particles on any one sieve, the average food particle size on that sieve is the mean of the screen opening of that sieve and the sieve below it.
a) True
b) False
b
7. Which of the following is NOT a reason to affect the effectiveness of a screen?
a) Broken mesh wires
b) Insufficient time for food particles to pass through the sieve
c) Blocked apertures
d) None of the mentioned
d
8. Stationary screens can be used for wet particles.
a) True
b) False
b
9. Gyratory screens are used when it is a continuous operation to be handled and the amount of material to be handled is very high.
a) True
b) False
a
10. The overall effectiveness of sieve equipment is the _____ of the effectiveness of the underflow and the overflow separately.
a) Addition
b) Multiplication
c) Difference
d) Division
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Engineering.
To practice all areas of Food Engineering for campus interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Engineering Questions and Answers – Unit Operations – Size Reduction and Seperation-1» Next - Food Engineering Questions and Answers – Unit Operations – Material Handling and Transportation 
