1. Which of the following is untrue about grilling meat?
a) The advantage of this process is that it reduces the saturated fat in the meat
b) It produces Hetero cyclic amines which are carcinogenic
c) It produces poly cyclic aromatic hydrocarbons which are carcinogenic
d) None of the mentioned
d
2. Poly cyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons are formed when the meat is exposed to very high temperatures.
a) True
b) False
b
Poly cyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons are formed when fat from the meat ignites/ drips on the coal.
3. Which information is incorrect when it comes to dehydration affecting vitamins?
a) Beta-carotene and B-vitamin do not get affected
b) Vitamin C does not get affected
c) Vitamin C is retained during pickling of vegetables
d) None of the mentioned
b
4. Which of the following is untrue?
a) Many Vitamin Bs like Vitamin B6 are affected by heating
b) Vitamin C is lost in almost all food processing steps
c) Vitamin C degradation decreases by enzymes and also metals like Cu and Fe
d) Vitamin A is stable in absence of oxygen
c
5. Alisha challenged her friends that one special vitamin would not be affected when she boils milk. Which vitamin is it?
a) Vitamin C
b) Vitamin D
c) Vitamin B
d) None of the mentioned
b
Join [email protected]
6. Which of the following statements is true with respect to food processing?
a) Sodium is lost during cooking and selenium is volatile and is lost by cooking or processing
b) Vitamins can be removed from food via leaching
c) Mineral losses in food processing are more compared to Vitamins
d) Boiling has less mineral losses as compared to steaming
a
7. Which is correct with respect to staling of bread?
a) It is temperature dependent
b) It is called retro gradation
c) It is the reverse of gelatinization
d) All of the mentioned
d
8. Which of the following is true with respect to gelatinization?
a) It allows starch to be easily digested
b) In this process, on heating, the crystalline structure of starch is lost and gel is formed
c) In this process, on cooling, the digestibility of starch in the intestine decreases
d) None of the mentioned
c
9. Which of the following operation reduces the dietary fibre content in cereals?
a) Drying
b) Retro gradation
c) Grinding
d) Milling
d
10. Nancy works at a cheese processing unit. They subject the cheese to oxidation. Which of the following comments pertaining to the above scenario are correct?
a) Oxidation is necessary for products like cheese
b) Lipid Oxidation is otherwise a major concern for the food industry
c) Deterioration of fats and oils is called rancidity
d) All of the mentioned
d
11. Which among the following statements is untrue?
a) Self oxidation of lipids is called ‘auto-oxidation’
b) High content of PUFA losing flavour is called rancidity
c) Heating and frying lead to polymerization of fats
d) None of the mentioned
b
12. Subjecting fats to high temperature in the presence of oxygen such that fats deteriorate is called _________
a) Hydrolytic rancidity
b) Auto- oxidation
c) Thermal decomposition
d) Lipolysis
c
13. Which of the following shows the propagation step in auto-oxidation?
a)  R∙ + R∙ → R-R
b)  RH → R∙ + H∙
c)  
R∙ + O2 → RO2∙
RO2∙ + RH → ROOH + R∙
d) None of the mentioned
c
14. Which of the following is a food safety tool?
a) Good Hygiene Practice
b) Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point
c) Total Quality Management
d) All of the mentioned
d
15. Hazards affecting food are _____
a) Chemical, Biological, Physical
b) Additives, Colour
c) Pollutants
d) All of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Engineering.
To practice all areas of Food Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Engineering Questions and Answers – Fats, Trans-fats, Proteins, Amino acids, Vitamins, Minerals- 2» Next - Food Engineering Questions and Answers – Food Contamination and Hazards 
