1. Sedimentation and centrifugation involve two miscible phases.
a) True
b) False
b
2. Which of the following does the terminal velocity of a particle NOT depend on?
a) Density of fluid and particle
b) Shape of the particle
c) Viscosity of the fluid
d) None of the mentioned
d
3. With respect to Sedimentation, the boundary between the thick suspension and solids will be decreasing and that between the clear liquid and the thick suspension will be increasing with the passage of time.
a) True
b) False
b
4. In sedimentation, l – clear liquid zone, t- thick suspension zone, s- solid zone. Which of the following curve with height of the interface as the y-axis and the time as the x-axis represent the s-t interface?
a) a
b) b
c) neither a or b
d) a & b
a
5. In sedimentation, l – clear liquid zone, t- thick suspension zone, s- solid zone. With concentration of solids as the y-axis and the time as the x-axis, which curve does the following represent?
a) l-t interface
b) t-s interface
c) t zone
d) none of the mentioned
b
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. The experimental details of the batch sedimentation experiment are comprehended by plotting which of the following two?
a) Height of interface against time
b) Concentration of solids against time
c) Settling rate vs slurry concentration
d) All of the mentioned
a
7. Statement 1: For calculating the minimum thickener area, the angle bisector method is used.
Statement 2: In the angle bisector method, the point obtained the curve and the corresponding time is the time when the solids enter the compression zone.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, False
d) False, True
b
8. The compression zone in batch sedimentation is considered the overflow.
a) True
b) False
b
9. Dorr-Oliver thickener is also called a _____
a) Continuous thickener
b) Raker
c) Continuous thickener & Raker
d) None of the mentioned
c
10. Which of the following is an application of sedimentation in the food industry?
a) Effluent treatment plant
b) Settling of dust on fruits
c) Effluent treatment plant & Settling of dust on fruits
d) None of the mentioned
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Engineering.
To practice all areas of Food Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Engineering Questions and Answers – Unit Operations – Filtration» Next - Food Engineering Questions and Answers – Unit Operations –  Sedimentation and Centrifuge-2 
