1. Which of the following deals with how food is adjudged by the consumer?
a) Food microbiology
b) Product Development
c) Sensory Analysis
d) Food physics
c
2. Industry lobbying, local to international rules, Quality and food safety etc includes which component of the food industry?
a) R&D
b) Financial Services
c) Regulation
d) Wholesale and distribution
c
3. Which of the following does NOT constitute 90% of dry weight of any food?
a) Carbohydrates
b) Fibers
c) Proteins
d) Fats
b
4. Which sentence is untrue with respect to the human body?
a) Unconsumed water broken → fats
b) Carbohydrates broken → Sugars
c) Proteins broken down → Amino acids
d) Fats broken down → Fatty acids and glycerol
a
5. Which provides energy very slowly?
a) Carbohydrates
b) Fats
c) Proteins
d) Fibers
b
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Which of the following is untrue?
a) A gram of carbohydrate or protein contains 4 calories
b) A gram of fat contains 9 calories
c) A gram of fat contains 5 calories
d) None of the mentioned
c
7. Storage requirements and stability, product attributes conductive to product sale etc. The above activities refer to which step of the food industry?
a) Production
b) Manufacture
c) Distribution
d) Marketing
c
8. With respect to the definition of an allied industry, which is an allied industry with the food industry?
a) Explosives Industry
b) Packaging Industry
c) Jute Industry
d) Leather Industry
b
9. Food industry is a high volume industry. Hence, any losses may be a major loss to the producer.
a) True
b) False
a
10. Increasing agricultural efficiency is the most important way to make sure food production meets the necessity.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Engineering.
To practice all areas of Food Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
» Next - Food Engineering Questions and Answers – Water, Carbohydrates and Dietary Fibre-1 
