1. Which of the following is true about mold inhibition?
a) Sorbic acid is used as a mold inhibitor in cheese
b) The quantity of Sorbic acid required for mold inhibition is one third the amount of sodium benzoate required
c) Propylene glycol and tri ethylene glycol have germicidal properties
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. Which of the following is valid when it comes to the future of antibiotics in food?
a) Should have no harmful effect on man when taken by mouth and preferably should be metabolizable
b) The economy of use, ease of use and reliability of control and detection must exist
c) Preferably compatible with other methods of permanent preservation
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. Which of the following is a naturally occurring antioxidant?
a) Hydroquinone
b) Ascorbic acid
c) Vitamin E
d) All of the mentioned
d
4. Statement 1: None of the naturally occurring antioxidant phenols are permitted as food additives.
Statement 2: Benzoic acid has certain antioxidant properties.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, False
d) False, True
b
5. Which of the following is true about synergism?
a) The mechanism of synergism depends on the nature of synergist, the antioxidant and the fat
b) Synergists do not have antioxidant properties alone
c) When two or more antioxidants combine, a greater effect than a single antioxidant is produced. This is referred to as synergism
d) All of the mentioned
d
6. _____ salts are used in many fruit processing operations in concentrations below 0.1%.
a) Calcium
b) Magnesium
c) Sodium
d) All of the mentioned
a
7. Which of the following is the use of waxing in plant tissues?
a) Reduces shrinkage losses
b) Reducing water losses due to evaporation
c) Thick leads to anaerobic respiration conditions and thin coat offers little control over moisture losses
d) All of the mentioned
d
8. Which of the following is a permitted food additive by the FDA when not in violation with other section of the act?
a) Aluminium sodium sulphate
b) Vitamin D-2
c) Sodium polyphosphate
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. Which of the following is NOT true about artificial coloring with respect to food?
a) It is defined as any material which contains a dye or a pigment
b) This dye or pigment can be obtained by extracting a natural dye or pigment from plants or other sources
c) Caramel falls under its definition
d) None of the mentioned
d
10. When the coloring is truly artificial, the food statement “food color added” needs to be added.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Engineering.
To practice all areas of Food Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Engineering Questions and Answers – Principles of Chemical Preservation of Food-1» Next - Food Engineering Questions and Answers – Principles of Food Irradiation-1 
