1. Tina eats a few legumes and walnuts and on some days she has egg with grains and nuts as breakfast. The first set are plant sources and the second a mixture of plant and animal sources. Are both the sets high quality proteins? Does this sentence stand true or False?
a) True
b) False
a
2. Which of the following sentences is untrue with respect to proteins?
a) Lysine is an essential amino acid.
b) The requirement of essential amino acids per kg of protein is called ‘reference pattern of amino acids’
c) Limiting amino acid content is the amino acid found in maximum quantity in the protein
d) There are 20 amino acids in the protein we require everyday
c
3. Which of the following terms refers to the amount of protein absorbed by the body from a food source?
a) Biological Value
b) Limiting Value
c) Reference pattern
d) None of the mentioned
a
4. Which of the following is untrue?
a) Biological Value of plant sources is more than animal sources
b) BV value of egg white is 100 that means almost the entire amount of nitrogen in egg white can be absorbed and used by the body
c) Food energy is the amount of energy available from food through respiration
d) Fats have the maximum amount of food energy
a
5. Mina’s understanding of proteins in various food items is as given. Which of the following is untrue?
a) The difference in the taste and texture in milk curd and chicken muscle is due to the arrangement of amino acids in the long chains of theirs to form proteins
b) Protein chains are perpendicular in a chicken breast
c) Proteins are changed physically from precipitate to gel and solution or vice-versa
d) Egg-white is an example of gel to precipitate
b
Join [email protected]
6. Mina notices various changes in proteins when they’re subjected to chemical physical change. Which of the following was wrongly understood by her?
a) When egg-white is heated it is irreversibly denatured that is its spatial and molecular arrangement changes
b) When milk is coagulated by acid and heat, protein precipitates which is curd
c) When meat is cooked, protein chains shrink and hence it shrinks
d) Mina perfectly understood all the concepts
d
7. Which of the following is incorrect?
a) Controlled cheese ripening is controlling some protein break down
b) Proteins form films
c) Egg white cannot be whipped
d) If proteins are over-whipped, the film breaks, foam collapses
c
8. Which of the following is untrue?
a) Vitamins are inorganic elements whereas minerals are organic elements
b) Fats soluble vitamins have more tendency to lead to hypervitaminosis
c) Fat soluble vitamins are absorbed by lipids in the intestinal tract
d) B and C are water soluble vitamins
a
9. Which of the following is untrue?
a) Gut flora produces Vitamin K and Biotin in the intestine
b) Vitamin D is synthesized in the skin
c) Humans can produce some vitamins from precursors that they consume
d) None of the mentioned
d
10. Which of the following is untrue?
a) Primary deficiency occurs when any vitamin is not consumed in the minimum required amount
b) Secondary deficiency occurs when proper absorption of the vitamins doesn’t take place
c) Overdosing from vitamin supplementation is possible
d) None of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Engineering.
To practice all areas of Food Engineering for freshers, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Engineering Questions and Answers – Fats, Trans-fats, Proteins, Amino acids, Vitamins, Minerals- 1» Next - Food Engineering Questions and Answers – Effect of Food Processing on Nutrition and Food Safety 
