1. Fats consist of compounds soluble in organic solvents and insoluble in water.
a) True
b) False
a
2. Which of the following is false?
a) Fats provide insulation
b) Fats maintain healthy skin and hair
c) Vitamin A, D, E and K are fat soluble only
d) Fats provide instant energy
d
3. Which of the following is untrue about Essential Fatty Acids?
a) EFAs are also called Vitamin F
b) EFAs can be synthesized by the body
c) EFAs cannot be synthesized by the body
d) Omega-3 and Omega-6 are the two families of EFAs
b
4. Omega-3 18:4 means that the chain has 18 carbons with 3 double bonds and the first double bond is at the fourth place.
a) True
b) False
b
5. Which of the following is true?
a) Fats naturally occurring unless mentioned otherwise are trans in nature
b) Trans fats are essential and needed for the human body
c) LC-PUFA stands for long chain poly saturated fatty acids
d) SC-PUFA stands for long chain poly unsaturated fatty acids
d
Join [email protected]
6. The class of trans-fat present in meat is _________
a) Oleic acid
b) Vaccenic acid
c) Eicosapentaenoic acid
d) Arachidonic acid
b
7. Following are the reasons why partially hydrogenated oils are used in the food industry. One of them is untrue. Which one?
a) Long shelf life
b) Less refrigeration required
c) Inexpensive
d) Healthy
d
8. Which of the following is NOT a culinary use of oil in the food industry?
a) Flavor
b) Texture
c) Softening
d) Shortening
c
9. Which of the following is untrue with respect to this sentence – proteins are popularly used in food processing industry because?
a) Water binding capacity
b) Oil binding capacity
c) Ability to coagulate on heating
d) None of the mentioned
b
10. Which of the following sentences is correct?
a) Animal sources are high quality proteins
b) Animal sources are low quality proteins
c) Plant sources are high quality proteins
d) None of the mentioned
a
11. Plant proteins contain a better balance of essential amino acids.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Engineering.
To practice all areas of Food Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Engineering Questions and Answers – Water, Carbohydrates and Dietary Fibre – 2» Next - Food Engineering Questions and Answers – Fats, Trans-fats, Proteins, Amino acids, Vitamins, Minerals- 2 
