1. Which of the following statements are true?
a) Pectin is a reversible colloid
b) Addition of sugar influences the pectin-water equilibrium
c) With the increase in acidity, the pectin structure fibers are tougher
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. Statement 1: Gel formation is favorable in more acidic medium.
Statement 2: Syneresis is used to describe jelly which have _____
a) True, free liquid
b) True, bound liquid
c) False, bound liquid
d) False, free liquid
b
3. When sucrose is converted into _____ it is called _____
a) Glucose, sugar
b) Reducing sugar, invert sugar
c) Maltose, glucose
d) None of the mentioned
b
4. Which of the following statements about sucrose is true?
a) Low inversion of sucrose does not result in crystallization
b) High inversion results in granulation of dextrose in the gel
c) The amount of invert sugar should be more than sucrose
d) All of the mentioned
b
5. Why is powdered pectin mixed ten times with its volume in dry sugar, mixed thoroughly and added to the juice?
a) It gives a better taste
b) To solidify the juice to form jelly
c) Uniform distribution and prevent lumping
d) All of the mentioned
c
6. Statement 1: Prolonged boiling causes hydrolysis of pectin and volatilization of acid.
Statement 2: Prolonged boiling causes loss of color and flavor.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, False
d) False, True
b
7. In vacuum concentration or normal concentration, the soluble solid content is determined by _____
a) Refractometer
b) Hydrometer
c) Refractometer & Hydrometer
d) Neither of the mentioned
c
8. Which of the following is true about jellies?
a) If acid needs to be added to compensate for the deficiencies in fruit composition, it is best added at the end of the evaporation cycle
b) Addition of acid late to the jelly allows formation of it in the container before gel formation
c) Setting of jelly can be controlled by part by the addition of sodium citrate
d) All of the mentioned
d
9. Which of the following points out the difference between other fruit products and jellies?
a) Initial material in fruit preserves
b) Gel development in fruit pastes
c) Solid content in fruit pastes
d) All of the mentioned
d
10. Which of the following statements is true with respect to cherries?
a) Sulphur dioxide bleaches the color
b) Calcium hardens tissues
c) Boiling in citric acid reduces their tendency to bleed in color and stain other fruits
d) All of the mentioned
d
11. Which of the following is not true about leaching of cherries?
a) It is done to remove sulphur dioxide
b) It is done to remove calcium
c) It removes natural fruit acid
d) Enhances penetration of dye into the flesh
b
12. For sweetened condensed milk, the product of milk and sugar is given a slight heat treatment and not sterilized.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Engineering.
To practice all areas of Food Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Engineering Questions and Answers – Principles of Food Concentrates-1» Next - Food Engineering Questions and Answers – Principles of Food Concentrates-3 
