1. What is the principle on which electromagnetic relays operate?
a) electromagnetic induction
b) motor control
c) switching
d) none of the mentioned
a
2. What are DPDT relays?
a) Single pole, single throw
b) Single pole, double throw
c) Double pole, double throw
d) None of the mentioned
c
3. Why do we need a ULN2803 in driving a relay?
a) for switching a motor
b) for increasing the current
c) for increasing the power
d) for switching the voltage
b
4. Why are solid-state relays advantageous over electromechanical relays?
a) they need zero voltage circuit
b) they need less current to be energised
c) they need less voltage to be energised
d) none of the mentioned
b
5. What are optoisolators?
a) it is a driver
b) it is a thing isolated from the entire world
c) it is a device that can be used as an electromagnetic relay without a driver
d) none of the mentioned
c
6. How can we control the speed of a stepper motor?
a) by controlling its switching rate
b) by controlling its torque
c) by controlling its wave drive 4 step sequence
d) cant be controlled
a
7. Which of the following can be a unit for torque?
a) kg/m2
b) ounce-inch
c) kg-m3
d) g/m
b
8. The RPM rating given for the DC motor is for?
a) no-loaded
b) loaded
c) none of the mentioned
d) all of the mentioned
a
9. How can we change the speed of a DC motor using PWM?
a) By changing amplitude of PWM
b) By keeping fixed duty cycle
c) By changing duty cycle of PWM
d) By increasing power of PWM
c
10. How can the direction of the DC motor be changed?
a) by changing the torque
b) by changing the switching speed
c) by changing the polarity of voltages connected to the leads
d) by changing the RPM rating
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microcontroller.
To practice all areas of Microcontroller, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - 8051 Microcontroller Questions and Answers – Interfacing with RTC» Next - Advanced Virtual RISC Microcontroller Questions and Answers – Architecture 
