1. Which of the following steps detects the key in a 4*4 keyboard matrix about the key that is being pressed?
a) masking of bits
b) ensuring that initially, all keys are open
c) checking that whether the key is actually pressed or not
d) all of the mentioned
d
2. What is described by this command: CJNE A,#00001111b, ROW1
a) it masks the bit and then jumps to the label where ROW1 is written
b) it makes the value of the accumulator 0FH and then jumps at the address where ROW1 label is written
c) it compares the value of the accumulator with 0FH and jumps to the location where ROW1 label is there if the value becomes equal
d) it compares the value of the accumulator with 0FH and jumps to the location where ROW1 label is there if the value is not equal
d
3. To detect that in which column, the key is placed?
a) we can mask the bits and then check it
b) we can rotate the bits and then check that particular bit which is set or reset(according to the particular condition)
c) none of the mentioned
d) all of the mentioned
d
4. In reading the columns of a matrix, if no key is pressed we should get all in binary notation
a) 0
b) 1
c) F
d) 7
b
5. If we need to operate a key of a keyboard in an interrupt mode, then it will generate what kind of interrupt?
a) ES
b) EX0/EX1
c) T0/T1
d) RESET
b
6. To identify that which key is being pressed, we need to:
a) ground all the pins of the port at a time
b) ground pins of the port one at a time
c) connect all the pins of the port to the main supply at a time
d) none of the mentioned
b
7. Key press detection and Key identification are:
a) the same processes
b) two different works are done in Keyboard Interfacing
c) none of the mentioned
d) any of the mentioned
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microcontroller.
To practice all areas of Microcontroller, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - 8051 Microcontroller Questions and Answers – LCD Interfacing» Next - 8051 Microcontroller Questions and Answers – ADC, DAC Interfacing 
