1. Which of the following is correct about BRNE instruction in avr microcontrollers?
a) it is used to compare two registers
b) it is used to compare two values
c) it is used to check the zero flag
d) it is used to jump to the given mentioned label when the zero flag accounts to 0
d
2. How many times is this loop going to get executed?
     LDI R20, 10
now: LDI R21, 70
     DEC R21
     BRNE now
     OUT PORTB, R20
a) 10
b) 70
c) 700
d) none of the mentioned
b
3. Which of the below mentioned are not the conditional jumps?
a) BRLO
b) BRMI
c) BRVC
d) None of the mentioned
d
4. What is the relation between the target and the relative address?
a) target address= PC address + relative address
b) target address= relation address*2
c) relative address= PC address + target address
d) none of the mentioned
a
Join [email protected]
5. In the JMP instruction, how many bits are there for determining the target address?
a) 16
b) 32
c) 22
d) 10
c
6. Which of the following statements are correct?
a) relative address of RJMP instruction varies from 000-fffH
b) target address of JMP instruction varies from 000000-3fffffH
c) IJMP instruction jumps to that address that points to by the Z register
d) all of the mentioned
d
7. Which of the following is used to represent the last RAM address?
a) MEM
b) LASTRAM
c) RAMEND
d) None of the mentioned
c
8. Which of the following statements are correct about the RCALL instruction?
a) it is a 2 byte instruction
b) it is a 4 byte instruction
c) it is a 16 byte instruction
d) none of the mentioned
a
9. On power on SP points to the address?
a) ffffH
b) fffH
c) 00h
d) all of the mentioned
c
10. Which of the following statements is true?
a) CALL instruction is used to transfer control anywhere in the 4M memory space
b) PUSH instruction is used to take out the value from the stack into some register
c) POP instruction is used to jump to any location
d) RCALL is a 4 byte instruction
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microcontroller.
To practice all areas of Microcontroller, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Advanced Virtual RISC Microcontroller Questions and Answers – Architecture» Next - AVR Microcontroller Questions and Answers – I/O Port Programming and Addressing Modes 
