1. In AVR microcontrollers, ADD instruction affects the status of which of the following bits of a status register?
a) Z
b) C
c) N
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. ADC instruction is used for?
a) addition of two 16 bit numbers
b) analog to digital conversion
c) automatic digital control
d) none of the mentioned
a
3. AVR supports which of the following mentioned subtraction instructions?
a) SUB
b) SBC
c) SUBI
d) All of the mentioned
d
4. What steps are involved when we subtract two numbers present at two different locations?
a) take the two’s complement of the subtrahend
b) add it to the minuend
c) invert the carry
d) all of the mentioned
d
5. In executing subtraction based instructions, state the role of the C flag?
a) if C=1, the result is negative
b) if C=1, the result is positive
c) none of the mentioned
d) all of the mentioned
a
6. Which of the following is correct about the MUL instruction?
a) it is a byte-by-byte multiplication instruction
b) the product is stored in two registers R1 and R0
c) all of the mentioned
d) none of the mentioned
c
7. In AVR, when is the V flag set?
a) there is a carry from D7 bit
b) there is a carry from D6 to D7 bit
c) when carry is generated only from D6 to D7 or carry is generated only from D7
d) none of the mentioned
c
8. To set the bits of a register R1 to 1, we must OR the contents of the register with?
a) 00H
b) 11H
c) FFH
d) 0FH
c
9. CP instruction alters the value of the register?
a) true
b) false
c) none of the mentioned
d) can’t be said
b
10. What is right about the ROR instruction?
a) it rotates the contents of the register left to right
b) it rotates the contents of the register from right to left
c) it rotates the contents of the register from left to right through carry
d) it rotates the contents of the register from right to left through carry
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microcontroller.
To practice all areas of Microcontroller, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - AVR Microcontroller Questions and Answers – I/O Port Programming and Addressing Modes» Next - AVR Microcontroller Questions and Answers – Timer Programming 
