1. What actually are the DB9, DB25 ports available in our computers?
a) they are connectors used to transfer data either serially or parallelly
b) they are the RS232 connectors used to connect two incompatible devices
c) they are the TTL logic connector pins used for communication
d) they are just data transfer pins used to transfer the data
b
2. What does RI handshaking signal refer to according to the RS232 logic?
a) if this logic is high then a receive interrupt is generated
b) this pin is high during transmission
c) this pin is high during a reception in order to tell that the device is busy at this particular time
d) none of the mentioned
c
3. What is the major difference between a MAX232 and a MAX233 device?
a) one has one serial port other has two
b) one has inbuilt UART other doesn’t have that
c) one needs some additional circuitry to operate while the other doesn’t have that
d) one is used just for transmission while the other is used for both transmission as well as reception
c
4. Which of the following is correct about the baud rate during serial transmission?
a) it tells us about the speed at which the transmission is going to place
b) it tells us about the number of bits transferred during a second
c) none of the mentioned
d) all of the mentioned
d
5. With fosc=8 MHz, what will the count that has to filled in the UBRR register to account for the 9600 baud rate?
a) 67H
b) CEH
c) 33H
d) 34H
c
6. The USART in AVR based microcontrollers operate at which of the following modes?
a) double speed asynchronous mode
b) master synchronous
c) slave synchronous
d) all of the mentioned
d
7. Which bit of the UCSRA is used for doubling the baud rate of the transmission?
a) DOR
b) PE
c) U2X
d) MPCM
c
8. What is the use of the PE and the FE bits of the UCSRA register?
a) they are used for keeping a check at the speed of transmission and reception
b) they are used for keeping a check at the data bits to be transferred
c) they are used to keep the transmission error free
d) they are used as extra redundant bits with no use
c
9. Which of the following bits are used for setting the data frame size?
a) UCSZ0
b) U2X
c) DOR
d) MPCM
a
10. Which of the following parameters should the transmitter and the receiver agree upon before starting a serial transmission?
a) baud rate
b) frame size
c) stop bit
d) all of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microcontroller.
To practice all areas of Microcontroller for Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - AVR Microcontroller Questions and Answers – Interrupt Programming» Next - AVR Microcontroller Questions and Answers – LCD  Interfacing 
