1. In AVR, which registers are there for the I/O programming of ports?
a) PORT
b) PIN
c) DDR
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. The data will not go from the port registers to the pin unless:
a) DDR register of that port is set to 0
b) PORT register of that port is set to 1
c) DDR register of that port is set to 1
d) PORT register of that port is set to 0
c
3. On reset DDR registers of all ports are set to:
a) 0
b) 1
c) None of the mentioned
d) 0 & 1
a
4. Which of the following statements are correct?
a) PIN register of a port is used to bring data into CPU from pins
b) PORT register is used to send data out to pins
c) DDR register is used to control the direction of a port
d) All of the mentioned
d
5. In the AVR family, all I/O ports have 8 pins?
a) true
b) false
c) none of the mentioned
d) can’t be determined
b
6. Which of the following is not a single bit instruction in AVR?
a) SBI
b) PORT
c) CBI
d) All of the mentioned
b
7. Which of the following is correct about the SBIS instruction?
a) it is used to monitor status of bit in I/O register
b) it is a byte oriented instruction
c) It is a 4 byte instruction
d) all of the mentioned
a
8. Instruction CBI PORTB,1 means
a) clearing the PORTB register
b) clearing the first bit of the PORTB register
c) setting the PORTB register
d) setting the first bit of the PORTB register
b
9. Which of the following instruction can be used to toggle a bit of the PORT?
a) SBI
b) CBI
c) SBI & CBI
d) None of the mentioned
c
10. What is the main function of the SBIC instruction?
a) it is used to clear a particular bit of a port
b) it is used to jump unconditionally
c) it is used to skip the instruction if a particular bit of a port is zero
d) none of the mentioned
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microcontroller.
To practice all areas of Microcontroller, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - AVR Microcontroller Questions and Answers – Jump, Loop and Call Instructions» Next - AVR Microcontroller Questions and Answers – Arithmetic and Logic Instructions 
