1. A microcontroller at-least should consist of:
a) RAM, ROM, I/O ports and timers
b) CPU, RAM, I/O ports and timers
c) CPU, RAM, ROM, I/O ports and timers
d) CPU, ROM, I/O ports and timers
c
2. Unlike microprocessors, microcontrollers make use of batteries because they have:
a) high power dissipation
b) low power consumption
c) low voltage consumption
d) low current consumption
b
3. What is the order decided by a processor or the CPU of a controller to execute an instruction?
a) decode,fetch,execute
b) execute,fetch,decode
c) fetch,execute,decode
d) fetch,decode,execute
d
4. If we say microcontroller is 8-bit then here 8-bit denotes size of:
a) Data Bus
b) ALU
c) Control Bus
d) Address Bus
b
5. How are the performance and the computer capability affected by increasing its internal bus width?
a) it increases and turns better
b) it decreases
c) remains the same
d) internal bus width doesn’t affect the performance in any way
a
6. Abbreviate CISC and RISC.
a) Complete Instruction Set Computer, Reduced Instruction Set Computer
b) Complex Instruction Set Computer, Reduced Instruction Set Computer
c) Complex Instruction Set Computer, Reliable Instruction Set Computer
d) Complete Instruction Set Computer, Reliable Instruction Set Computer
b
7. Give the names of the buses present in a controller for transferring data from one place to another?
a) data bus, address bus
b) data bus
c) data bus, address bus, control bus
d) address bus
c
8. What is the file extension that is loaded in a microcontroller for executing any instruction?
a) .doc
b) .c
c) .txt
d) .hex
d
9. What is the most appropriate criterion for choosing the right microcontroller of our choice?
a) speed
b) availability
c) ease with the product
d) all of the mentioned
d
10. Why microcontrollers are not called general purpose computers?
a) because they have built in RAM and ROM
b) because they design to perform dedicated task
c) because they are cheap
d) because they consume low power
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Microcontroller.
To practice all areas of Microcontroller, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
» Next - Microcontroller Questions and Answers – Von Neumann and Harward Architectures 
