1. Phase array with lens array come under which feeding system?
a) Optical-feed system
b) Constrained feed system
c) Sub array feed
d) Phase shifter
a
2. Which of the following statement is true?
a) Lens array has different input and output radiators while same radiator is used for reflector array
b) There is no surface matching required for the lens array
c) In lens and reflect array same radiator is used for input and output
d) Lens and reflect array belong to constrained feed systems
a
3. In which of the following feed system, the power division among elements on aperture is done in several steps?
a) Constrained feed systems
b) Optical feed systems
c) Lens array
d) Reflect array
a
4. Which of the following series feed has same bandwidth similar to parallel feed network?
a) End fed array
b) Center fed array
c) Both end fed and Center fed array
d) Neither End fed nor center fed array
b
5. In which of the following the feed is provided at the end of the array?
a) Series end fed
b) Series center fed
c) Parallel feed
d) Optical feed systems
a
6. In which of the following radiators are combined into sub-arrays and then fed to elements in end or center fed?
a) Parallel feed
b) Series feed
c) Optical feed system
d) Series end feed
a
7. In which of the following the power is divided in single step among the elements?
a) Optical feed system
b) Constrained feed system
c) Parallel feed system
d) Sub-array
a
8. The power divider used to connect array elements to single port is called _____
a) array feed
b) phase shifter
c) frequency shifter
d) repeater
a
9. Which of the following feed techniques the reflect array used particularly?
a) Space feed
b) Constrained feed
c) Parallel plate feed
d) Sub array
a
10. A folded pillbox antenna is used in which of the following feeding system?
a) Parallel plate feed
b) Space feed
c) Optical feed system
d) Constrained feed system
a
11. Parallel plate feed is a cross of constrained and space feed.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Antennas.
To practice all areas of Antennas, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Antennas Questions and Answers – Phased Array – Basics» Next - Antennas Questions and Answers – Adaptive Array 
