1. Which of the following statements is false regarding smart antenna for 802.11 applications?
a) Coverage area is increased
b) Signal paths are reduced
c) Probability of collisions is increased
d) Interference is reduced
c
2. Which of the following is not the advantage of smart antenna?
a) Range is increased
b) Secured transmission
c) Design of trans-receiver is simple
d) Probability of collisions is reduced
c
3. Which of the following is used to distinguish the selected signal and the multipath signal in smart antenna architecture?
a) DSP procedure
b) Switched beam array
c) Range gates
d) Delay Cancellers
a
4. Which of the following is mostly used to generate multiple fixed beams by augmentation in specific orders?
a) Switched Beam array
b) Range gates
c) Conical Scanning
d) FMCW radar
a
5. In which of the following type of smart antenna, the performance of the multi-channel fading is limited?
a) Diversity system
b) Omni-directional system
c) Sectored system
d) Directional system
a
6. Which of the following is not the benefit of smart antenna?
a) It increases the SIR
b) It decreases the SIR
c) It increases the SNR
d) Probability of collisions is reduced
b
7. In Smart antennas, signal to interference ratio is low.
a) True
b) False
b
8. Which of the following suffers the co-channel interference most?
a) Smart antennas
b) Sectored antennas
c) Omni-directional
d) Both Smart antenna and Omni-direction
c
9. Smart antennas can be used for location-specific service.
a) True
b) False
a
10. Which of the following is benefit of smart antenna?
a) It is easy to tap the connection by the intruder apart from the user
b) Co-Channel interference is less compared to the Omni-directional
c) Design of Trans-receiver is complex
d) It cannot be used for location-specific services
b
  Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Antennas.  
To practice all areas of Antennas,  < u> here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers .
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Antennas Questions and Answers – Multi Hop Propagation» Next - Antennas Questions and Answers – Smart Antennas – Drawbacks 
