1. Which of the following is Rumsey’s principle?
a) The impedance & pattern of antenna is frequency independent if antennasize is specified in terms of angle
b) The impedance & pattern of antenna is frequency dependent if antennasize is specified in terms of angle
c) The impedance & pattern of antenna is frequency dependent if antennasize is specified in terms of radiated power
d) The impedance & pattern of antenna is frequency dependent if antennasize is variable
a
2. Rumsey’s principle is related to which type of antennas?
a) Frequency independent antennas
b) Frequency dependent antennas
c) Reflector antennas
d) Both Frequency independent and independent antennas
a
3. Which of the following is truefor a frequency independent antenna?
a) Dimensions of antenna are specified in terms of angles
b) Dimensions of antenna are specified in terms of varying wavelengths
c) The antennas have variable impedance, pattern over operating wide band frequency
d) It does not follow Rumsey’s principle
a
4. The impedance and pattern are frequency independent if antenna shape is specified in terms of angle.
a) True
b) False
a
5. Which of the following property doesn’t meet a true frequency independent antenna?
a) Fixed physical size
b) Constant impedance, pattern
c) Operates over wide bandwidth
d) Variable physical size
d
6. Impedance of self-complementary antenna is ____
a) Zo/2
b) Zo/4
c) Zo
d) 2Zo
a
7. Which of the following principle is mainly used in frequency independent antennas?
a) Rumsey’s principle
b) Fabry perot
c) Brewster law
d) Archimedes principle
a
8. Which of the following does not belongs to frequency independent antenna?
a) Spiral antenna
b) Log periodic antenna
c) Helical antenna
d) Parabolic antenna
d
9. Constant impedance of a self complementary antenna is Zo/4.
a) True
b) False
b
10. Value of self complementary antenna when Zo=120π?
a) 120π
b) 60π
c) 240π
d) 30π
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Antennas.
To practice all areas of Antennas, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Antennas Questions and Answers – Binomial Array» Next - Antennas Questions and Answers – Frequency Independent Antenna – Helical Antenna 
