1. Which of the following is used to avoid the aperture blockage due to secondary reflector?
a) Offset feed system
b) Cassegrain
c) Plane reflector
d) Parabolic antenna
a
2. Which of the following causes aperture blockage in a Cassegrain antenna?
a) Main reflector
b) Sub-reflector
c) Feed radiator
d) Noise from surroundings
b
3. In which of the following the secondary reflector faces the primary reflector?
a) Cassegrain
b) Gregorian
c) Corner reflector
d) Plane reflector
b
4. Which of the following statement is true regarding a Gregorian antenna?
a) Sub-reflector ellipsoidal lies closer to the focus of the paraboloid
b) Sub-reflector is a hyperboloid with its convex facing feed
c) Sub-reflector is an ellipsoidal with its concave facing reflector
d) Sub-reflector is an ellipsoidal with its concave facing feed
c
5. In which of the following the aperture blocking is reduced by permitting antenna to operate in a single polarization?
a) Truncated reflector
b) Cassegrain
c) Polarization-twist reflector
d) Plane reflector
c
6. In which of the following a sub-reflector called trans-reflector is present?
a) Polarization-twist reflector
b) Plane reflector
c) Cassegrain
d) Gregorian
a
7. Which of the following is not used for aperture blocking?
a) Reducing size of sub-reflector
b) Offset feed system
c) High directive feed
d) Reducing spillover
c
8. Which of the following condition holds good for minimum total aperture blocking in Cassegrain?
a) Area of sub-reflector and projected area of feed are equal
b) Area of primary reflector and projected area of feed are equal
c) Area of sub-reflector greater than area of primary reflector
d) Area of sub-reflector is less than projected area of feed
a
9. In Polarization-twist reflector, sub-reflector consists of a horizontal grating of wires.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Antennas.
To practice all areas of Reflector Antenna for online Quizzes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Reflector Antenna Questions and Answers – Feeding Systems» Next - Reflector Antenna Questions and Answers – Application of Parabolic Reflector 
