1. Activation value is associated with?
a) potential at synapses
b) cell membrane potential
c) all of the mentioned
d) none of the mentioned
b
2. In activation dynamics is output function bounded?
a) yes
b) no
a
3. What’s the actual reason behind the boundedness of the output function in activation dynamics?
a) limited neural fluid
b) limited fan in capacity of inputs
c) both limited neural fluid & fan in capacity
d) none of the mentioned
d
4. What is noise saturation dilemma?
a) at saturation state neuron will  stop working, while biologically it’s not feasible
b) how can a neuron with limited operating range be made sensitive to nearly unlimited range of inputs
c) can be either way
d) none of the mentioned
b
5. Broadly how many kinds of stability can be defined in neural networks?
a) 1
b) 3
c) 2
d) 4
c
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. What is structural stability?
a) when both synaptic & activation dynamics are simultaneously used & are in equilibrium
b) when only synaptic dynamics in equilibrium
c) when only synaptic dynamics in equilibrium
d) none of the mentioned
d
7. What is global stability?
a) when both synaptic & activation dynamics are simultaneously used & are in equilibrium
b) when only synaptic & activation dynamics are used
c) when only synaptic dynamics in equilibrium
d) none of the mentioned
a
8. Which models belongs to main subcategory of activation models?
a) additive & subtractive activation models
b) additive & shunting activation models
c) subtractive & shunting activation models
d) all of the mentioned
b
9.What is the assumption of perkels model, if f(x) is the output function in additive activation model?
a) f(x)=x
b) f(x)=x2
c) f(x)=x3
d) none of the mentioned
a
10. Who proposed the shunting activation model?
a) rosenblatt
b) hopfield
c) perkel
d) grossberg
d
11. What was the goal of shunting activation model?
a) to make system dynamic
b) to keep operating range of activation value to a specified range
c) to make system static
d) can be either for dynamic or static, depending on inputs
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Neural Networks.
To practice all areas of Neural Networks, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Neural Network Questions and Answers – Dynamics» Next - Neural Network Questions and Answers – Learning Basics – 1 
