1. What kind of learning is involved in pattern clustering task?
a) supervised
b) unsupervised
c) learning with critic
d) none of the mentioned
b
2. In pattern clustering, does physical location of a unit relative to other unit has any significance?
a) yes
b) no
c) depends on type of clustering
d) none of the mentioned
b
3. How is feature mapping network distinct from competitive learning network?
a) geometrical arrangement
b) significance attached to neighbouring units
c) nonlinear units
d) none of the mentioned
d
4. What is the objective of feature maps?
a) to capture the features in space of input patterns
b) to capture just the input patterns
c) update weights
d) to capture output patterns
a
5. How are weights updated in feature maps?
a) updated for winning unit only
b) updated for neighbours of winner only
c) updated for winning unit and its neighbours
d) none of the mentioned
c
6. In feature maps, when weights are updated for  winning unit and its neighbour, which type learning it is known as?
a) karnaugt learning
b) boltzman learning
c) kohonen’s learning
d) none of the mentioned
c
7. In self organizing network, how is layer connected to output layer?
a) some are connected
b) all are one to one connected
c) each input unit is connected to each output unit
d) none of the mentioned
c
8. What is true regarding adaline learning algorithm
a) uses gradient descent to determine the weight vector that leads to minimal error
b) error is defined as MSE between neurons net input and its desired output
c) this technique allows incremental learning
d) all of the mentioned
d
9. What is true for competitive learning?
a) nodes compete for inputs
b) process leads to most efficient neural representation of input space
c) typical for unsupervised learning
d) all of the mentioned
d
10. Use of nonlinear units in the feedback layer of competitive network leads to concept of?
a) feature mapping
b) pattern storage
c) pattern classification
d) none of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Neural Networks.
To practice all areas of Neural Networks, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Neural Network Questions and Answers – Feedback Layer» Next - Neural Network Questions and Answers – Associative Memories 
