1. Probability of error in recall of stored patterns can be reduced if?
a) patterns are stored appropriately
b) inputs are captured appropriately
c) weights are chosen appropriately
d) none of the mentioned
c
2. What is pattern environment?
a) probability of desired patterns
b) probability of given patterns
c) behaviour of system
d) none of the mentioned
d
3. For what purpose is pattern environment useful?
a) determining structure
b) determining desired outputs
c) determining future inputs
d) none of the mentioned
d
4. What should be the aim of training procedure in boltzman machine of feedback networks?
a) to capture inputs
b) to feedback the captured outputs
c) to capture the behaviour of system
d) none of the mentioned
d
5. What consist of boltzman machine?
a) fully connected network  with both hidden and visible units
b) asynchronous operation
c) stochastic update
d) all of the mentioned
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. By using which method, boltzman machine reduces effect of additional stable states?
a) no such method exist
b) simulated annealing
c) hopfield reduction
d) none of the mentioned
b
7. For which other task can boltzman machine be used?
a) pattern mapping
b) feature mapping
c) classification
d) pattern association
d
8. How are energy minima related to probability of occurrence of corresponding patterns in the environment?
a) directly
b) inversely
c) directly or inversely
d) no relation
a
9. Is exact representation of pattern environment possible?
a) yes
b) no
b
10. What may be the reasons for non zero probability of error in recalling?
a) spurious stable states
b) approximation in pattern environment representation
c) extra stable states
d) all of the mentioned
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Neural Networks.
To practice all areas of Neural Networks, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Neural Network Questions and Answers – Stochastic Networks» Next - Neural Network Questions and Answers – Boltzman Machine – 2 
