1. Which application out of these of robots can be made of single layer feedforward network?
a) wall climbing
b) rotating arm and legs
c) gesture control
d) wall following
d
2. Which is the most direct application of neural networks?
a) vector quantization
b) pattern mapping
c) pattern classification
d) control applications
c
3. What are pros of neural networks over computers?
a) they have ability to learn b examples
b) they have real time high computational rates
c) they have more tolerance
d) all of the mentioned
d
4. what is true about single layer associative neural networks?
a) performs pattern recognition
b) can find the parity of a picture
c) can determine whether two or more  shapes in a picture are connected or not
d) none of the mentioned
a
5. which of the following is false?
a) neural networks are artificial copy of the human brain
b) neural networks have high computational rates than conventional computers
c) neural networks learn by examples
d) none of the mentioned
d
6. For what purpose, hamming network is suitable?
a) classification
b) association
c) pattern storage
d) none of the mentioned
a
7. What happens in upper subnet of the hamming network?
a) classification
b) storage
c) output
d) none of the mentioned
d
8. The competition in upper subnet of hamming network continues till?
a) only one unit remains negative
b) all units are destroyed
c) output of only one unit remains positive
d) none of the mentioned
c
9. What does the activation value of winner unit is indicative of?
a) greater the degradation more is the activation value of winning units
b) greater the degradation less is the activation value of winning units
c) greater the degradation more is the activation value of other units
d) greater the degradation less is the activation value of other units
b
10. What does the matching score at first layer in recognition hamming network  is indicative of?
a) dissimilarity of input pattern with patterns stored
b) noise immunity
c) similarity of input pattern with patterns stored
d) none of the mentioned
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Neural Networks.
To practice all areas of Neural Networks, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Neural Network Questions and Answers – ART» Next - Neural Network Questions and Answers – Applications of Neural Networks – 2 
