1. Who invented perceptron neural networks?
a) McCullocch-pitts
b) Widrow
c) Minsky & papert
d) Rosenblatt
d
2. What was the 2nd stage in perceptron model called?
a) sensory units
b) summing unit
c) association unit
d) output unit
c
3. What was the main deviation in perceptron model from that of MP model?
a) more inputs can be incorporated
b) learning enabled
c) all of the mentioned
d) none of the mentioned
b
4. What is delta (error) in perceptron model of neuron?
a) error due to environmental condition
b) difference between desired & target output
c) can be both due to difference in target output or environmental condition
d) none of the mentioned
a
5. If a(i) is the input, ^ is the error, n is the learning parameter, then how can weight change in a perceptron model be represented?
a) na(i)
b) n^
c) ^a(i)
d) none of the mentioned
d
6. What is adaline in neural networks?
a) adaptive linear element
b) automatic linear element
c) adaptive line element
d) none of the mentioned
a
7. who invented the adaline neural model?
a) Rosenblatt
b) Hopfield
c) Werbos
d) Widrow
d
8. What was the main point of difference between the adaline & perceptron model?
a) weights are compared with output
b) sensory units result is compared with output
c) analog activation value is compared with output
d) all of the mentioned
c
9. In adaline model what is the relation between output & activation value(x)?
a) linear
b) nonlinear
c) can be either linear or non-linear
d) none of the mentioned
a
10. what is the another name of weight update rule in adaline  model based on its functionality?
a) LMS error learning law
b) gradient descent algorithm
c) both LMS error & gradient descent learning law
d) none of the mentioned
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Neural Networks.
To practice all areas of Neural Networks for Interviews, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Neural Network Questions and Answers – Models – 1» Next - Neural Network Questions and Answers – Topology 
