1. In stranded conductor of 6 layers, what will be the total number of individual wire?
a) 75
b) 85
c) 84
d) 74
b
2. A standard conductor have three layers of wire. What will be the diameter of stranded conductor if diameter of each strand is 5 mm?
a) 38 mm
b) 15 mm
c) 20 mm
d) 35 mm
d
3. What is the disadvantage of using Stranded Hard Drawn Copper for overhead transmission lines?
a) Low tensile strength
b) Due to electrolytic troubles
c) Corrosion
d) High cost
d
4. Which of the following conductors are most suitable for short lines supplying rural areas and operating at voltage of about 11 Kv?
a) Hard Drawn Copper Conductor
b) ACSR Conductor
c) Galvanized steel
d) Phosphor Bronze
c
5. Which of the following conductive material will be preferred when harmful gases such as ammonia are present in atmosphere?
a) Cadmium copper
b) Phosphor bronze
c) Galvanized steel
d)  Aluminium
b
Join [email protected]
6. What is the amount of Corona losses in ACSR conductors in comparison to copper conductors?
a) Low
b) High
c) Same
d) No Corona loss
a
7. What is the advantage of cadmium copper over hard drawn copper?
a) Higher conductivity
b) Higher tensile strength
c)  Low cost
d)  Low conductivity
b
8. In extra High Voltage lines, which conductor material is used for ground wire provided above the line conductors for protection against lightning?
a) Hard drawn copper
b) Cadmium copper
c) Stranded galvanized steel
d) ACSR
c
9. Which of the following conductor is needed to use with shortest span?
a) ACSR Conductors
b) All Aluminium Conductors
c) Hard Drawn Copper Conductors
d) Cadmium Copper Conductors
b
10. Which of the following wire is used as stay wire?
a) All Aluminium Conductors
b) Standard Galvanized Steel Conductors
c) Cadmium Copper Conductors
d) Phosphor Bronze Conductors
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Power Systems.
To practice all areas of Power Systems, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.  
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Power Systems Questions and Answers – Gas Turbine Power Plants & Types of Tariffs» Next - Power Systems Questions and Answers – Sag and Tension, Vibrations and Dampers 
