1. Which of the following transmission line can be considered as medium transmission line?
a) Transmission line of length upto 600 Km
b) Transmission line of length upto 500 Km
c) Transmission line of length upto 200 Km
d) Transmission line of length upto 80 Km
c
2. Which of the following is correct operating voltage range for medium transmission lines.
a) More than 765 KV
b) More than 400 KV
c) More than 20 KV
d) More than 132 KV
c
3. What is the value of the charging current flowing to earth in medium transmission line.
a) Very high
b) Medium
c) Negligible
d) No capacitance
b
4. Performance of short transmission lines depends on which of the following?
a) Resistance and Capacitance
b) Resistance and Inductance
c) Inductance and Capacitance
d) Resistance, Inductance and Capacitance
d
5. Performance analysis of medium transmission line is done ________
a) By reactance diagram
b) By symmetrical component analysis method
c) By neglecting line inductance
d) On per phase basis
d
6. What is the value of shunt capacitance of medium transmission line?
a) Very high
b) Medium
c) Zero
d) Negligable
b
7. In medium transmission line the reciving end voltage may be greater than sending end voltage due to Ferranti effect.
a) True
b) False
a
8. Series inductance and series resistance of medium transmission lines are taken as:
a) Distributed and Lumped
b) Lumped and Distributed
c) Distributed
d) Lumped
d
9. Which of the following is like equivalent circuit of medium transmission line?
a) Series RLC circuit
b) RLC circuit in pie form
c) Series RL circuit
d) Parallel RL circuit
b
10. In medium transmission lines shunt capacitances are considered as lumped.
a) true
b) false
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Power Systems.
To practice all areas of Power Systems, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.  
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Power Systems Questions and Answers – Short Transmission Line – 2» Next - Power Systems Questions and Answers – Medium Transmission Line – 2 
