1. What is the principle of operation of steam power plant?
a) Carnot cycle
b) Brayton cycle
c) Stirling cycle
d) Rankine cycle
d
2. Read the following statement about boilers.
       I. Water tube boiler is capable of generating steam of pressure more than 50 kg/cm2 .
      II. Fire tube boiler is suitable for generating steam of pressure less than 17.5 kg/cm2 .
     III. Water tube boiler occupy comparatively less space.
a) Only statement I is true
b) Statement I, II and III are true
c) I and II are true but III is false
d) I and III are true but II is false
b
3. Fire tube boilers are safer than water tube boilers.
a) True
b) False
b
4. Which of the following material is not used in the boiler furnace walls?
a) Fire clay
b) Concrete
c) Silica
d) Kaolin
b
5. Which of the following statement about economiser of steam power plant is wrong?
a) Economiser increases the Boiler Efficiency about 5 to 15%
b) It uses the heat of flue gases used by boiler going to the chimney.
c) Economiser increases the temperature of intake air
d) It require regular maintenance and cleaning
c
6. Which of the following are the most widely used condensers in modern thermal power plants?
a) Surface condensers
b) Low level counter flow type jet condenser
c) High level counter flow type jet condenser
d) Parallel flow type jet condenser
a
7. Read the following statements about feed water heaters
       I. Open or contact heaters are also called Deaerator.
       II. Open or contact heaters constructed to remove non-condensable gases from feed water.
a) Only statement I. is correct
b) Only statement II. is correct
c)  I. and II. are correct
d)  I. and II. are wrong
c
8. Which of the following is a part of air and fuel gas circuit?
a) Condenser
b) Economiser
c) Air preheater
c) Cooling tower
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Power Systems.
To practice all areas of Power Systems, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.  
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Power Systems Questions and Answers – Efficiency of Steam Power Plant» Next - Power Systems Questions and Answers – Steam Turbines 
