1. According to the rice’s theorem, If P is a non trivial property, Lp is :
a) infinite
b) decidable
c) undecidable
d) none of the mentioned
c
2. Fill in the blank with reference to Rice’s theorem.
For any non-trivial property of __________ no general or effective method can decide whether an algorithm computes it with that property.
a) partial functions
b) piecewise functions
c) both (a) and (b)
d) none of the mentioned
a
3. Which of the following is incorrect according to rice theorem?
Let S be a set of language hat is non trivial:
a) there exists a TM that recognizes the language in S
b) there exists a TM that recognizes the language not in S
c) both (a) and (b)
d) none of the mentioned
c
4. Which of the following set of computable functions are decidable?
a) The class of computable functions that are constant, and its complement
b) The class of indices for computable functions that are total
c) The class of indices for recursively enumerable sets that are cofinite
d) All of the mentioned
d
5. Which of the following statements are undecidable?
For a given Turing Machine M,
a)  does M halt on an empty input tape
b) does M halt for anly inputs at all?
c) is L(M) regular? Context free? Turing decidable?
d) all of the mentioned
d
6. Post Correspondence problem is
a) decidable decision problem
b) undecidable decision problem
c) not a decision problem
d) none of the mentioned
b
7. State true or false:
Statement: The difference between PCP and MPCP is that in MPCP, a solution is required to start with the first string on each list.
a) true
b) false
a
8. PCP stands for?
a) Post Correspondence Problem
b) Post Corresponding Problem
c) Pre Correspondence problem
d) None of the mentioned
a
9. Can a Modified PCP problem be reduced to PCP?
a) yes
b) no
a
10. Consider three decision problem A, B, C. A is decidable and B is not. Which of the following is a correct option?
a) C is undecidable if C is reducible to B
b) C is undecidable if B is reducible to C
c) C is decidable if A is reducible to C
d) C is decidable if C is reducible to B’s complement.
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automata Theory.
To practice all areas of Automata Theory, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automata Theory Questions and Answers –  The Universal Language-Undecidability» Next - Automata Theory Questions and Answers –  Problem Solvable in Polynomial Time 
