1. Language classes have the following property:
a) Closure property
b) Decision property
c) Closure & Decision property
d) None of the mentioned
c
2. Which of the following are decision properties?
a) Emptiness
b) Infiniteness
c) Membership
d) All of the mentioned
d
3. Pick the odd one out of the given properties of a regular language:
a) Kleene
b) Reversal
c) Homomorphism
d) Membership
d
4. For an automata, which of the following are equivalent variants?
DFA,NFA and NFA with epsilon transitions
a) DFA and NFA
b) NFA and epsilon NFA
c) DFA and epsilon NFA
d) All of the mentioned
d
5. Which of the following are not meant to specify a regular language?
a) Regular Expression
b) DFA
c) NDFA and epsilon-NFA
d) All of the mentioned
d
6. Which of the following problems do not belong to decision properties?
a) Given two languages, are there strings that are in both
b) Is the language a subset of another regular language
c) Is the language same as another regular language
d) None of the mentioned
d
7. Which of the following is a function of Closure properties?
a) Helps construct representations
b) Helps show informally described languages not to be in class
c) Both (a) and (b)
d) None of the mentioned
c
Is the regular languages L1 and L2 closed on concatenation operation?, etc.
8. Suppose there is a string w=abbab, and there exists a DFA which accepts w. How many stepts will be required to test its membership?
a) 2
b) 1
c) 4
d) None of the mentioned
.
9. If a DFA has n states and the language contains any string of length n or more, the language is termed as:
a) Infinite
b) Empty
c) Non regular
d) None of the mentioned
.
10. State true or false:
Statement: If an n-state DFA accepts a string w of length n or more, then there must be a state that appears twice on the path labeled w from the start state to the final state.
a) true
b) false
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automata Theory.
To practice all areas of Automata Theory, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automata Theory Questions and Answers –  Conversions among Representations» Next - Automata Theory Questions and Answers –  Context Free Grammar-Derivations and Definitions 
