1. A turing machine that is able to simulate other turing machines:
a) Nested Turing machines
b) Universal Turing machine
c) Counter machine
d) None of the mentioned
b
2. Which of the problems are unsolvable?
a) Halting problem
b) Boolean Satisfiability problem
c) Both (a) and (b)
d) None of the mentioned
c
3. Which of the following a turing machine does not consist of?
a) input tape
b) head
c) state register
d) none of the mentioned
d
4. The value of n if turing machine is defined using n-tuples:
a) 6
b) 7
c) 8
d) 5
b
The 7-tuple definition of turing machine: (Q, S, G, d, q0, B, F)
where Q= The finite set of states of finite control
S= The finite set of input symbols
G= The complete set of tape symbols
d= The transition function
q0= The start state, a member of Q, in which the finite control is found initially.
B= The blank symbol
F= The set of final or accepting states, a subset of Q.
5. If  d is not defined on the current state and the current tape symbol, then the machine ______
a) does not halts
b) halts
c) goes into loop forever
d) none of the mentioned
b
6. Statement: Instantaneous descriptions can be designed for a Turing machine.
State true or false:
a) true
b) false
a
7. Which of the following are the models equivalent to Turing machine?
a) Multi tape turing machine
b) Multi track turing machine
c) Register machine
d) All of the mentioned
d
8. Which among the following is incorrect for o-machines?
a) Oracle Turing machines
b) Can be used to study decision problems
c) Visualizes Turing machine with a black box which is able to decide cerain decion problems in one operation
d) None of the mentioned
d
9. RASP stands for:
a) Random access storage program
b) Random access stored program
c) Randomly accessed stored program
d) Random access storage programming
b
10. Which of the following is not true about RASP?
a) Binary search can be performed more quickly using RASP than a turing machine
b) Stores its program in memory external to its state machines instructions
c) Has infinite number of distinguishable, unbounded registers
d) Binary search can be performed less quickly using RASP than a turing machine
e) More than two options are incorrect
d
11. State true or false:
Statement: RASP is to RAM like UTM is to turing machine.
a) true
b) false
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automata Theory.
To practice all areas of Automata Theory, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automata Theory Questions and Answers – Turing Machine-Notation and Transition Diagrams» Next - Automata Theory Questions and Answers –  The Language of Turing Machine-2 
