1. Which of the following can be used for representing a real world feature on two dimensional surfaces?
a) Plan
b) Drawing
c) Scale
d) Map
d
2. Which of the following sets represent the correct set of map classification?
a) Cadastral, thematic
b) Thematic, geographic
c) Cadastral, geographic
d) Geographic, topographic
a
3. Which type of map can explain a particular feature in detail?
a) Cadastral map
b) Topographic map
c) Thematic map
d) Geographic map
c
4. If the number on scale is less then it represents a large scale map.
a) True
b) False
a
5. In which of the following ways, meridians are projected in cylindrical projection?
a) Mathematically
b) Geometrically
c) Horizontally
d) Vertically
b
6. Which type of map projection is used in the preparation of atlas?
a) Cylindrical projection
b) UTM projection
c) Poly conic projection system
d) Lambert- Azimuthal equal area projection
d
7. The entire earth surface is divided into zones in which type of map projection?
a) Poly conic projection system
b) Cylindrical projection
c) UTM projection
d) Lambert- Azimuthal equal area projection
c
8. Which of the following can also be termed as un projected co-ordinate system?
a) Lambert- Azimuthal equal area projection
b) Latitude – longitude geographic co-ordinate system
c) Poly conic projection system
d) Cylindrical projection
b
9. Determine the scale of the map if the distance on the map is given as 2cm which is equal to 1km on the ground.
a) 1: 50000
b) 1: 5000
c) 1: 100000
d) 1: 500
a
10.  Which of the following is not a method of representation of the scale of the map?
a) Ratio method
b) Verbal method
c) Geographical method
d) Non-verbal method
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Surveying.
To practice all areas of Surveying, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Surveying Questions and Answers – Errors in GIS» Next - Surveying Questions and Answers – Topographic Maps – CIM Series 
