1. Which of the following can be used to sight two different objects simultaneously?
a) Compass
b) Sextant
c) Theodolite
d) Abney level
b
2. Sextant can be used to measure vertical angles.
a) True
b) False
a
3. Which of the following is not a classification of sextant?
a) Box sextant
b) Nautical sextant
c) Vibrating sextant
d) Sounding sextant
c
4. Which of the following can justify the principle of sextant?
a) β = α/2
b) α = β*2
c) α = β+2
d) α = β-2
d
5. Which of the following doesn’t serve as an optical requirement in case of sextant?
a) Optical axis must be parallel
b) Mirrors if placed parallel should be zero
c) Mirrors must be perpendicular
d) Optical axis must be perpendicular
a
6. Which classification of the sextant is used for navigation purposes?
a) Box sextant
b) Nautical sextant
c) Vibrating sextant
d) Sounding sextant
b
7. Which of the following instruments can be used for locating inaccessible points?
a) Sounding sextant
b) Vibrating sextant
c) Box sextant
d) Nautical sextant
c
8. Among the following, which doesn’t come under permanent adjustment of sextant?
a) Index glass perpendicular with graduated arc
b) Horizon glass perpendicular with graduated arc
c) Line of sight parallel to plane of graduated arc
d) Line of sight perpendicular to plane of graduated arc
d
9. Which of the following need not to be changed in case of box sextant?
a) Line of sight
b) Index glass
c) Index error
d) Lens
b
10. If the index error is not large, error must be corrected.
a) False
b) True
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Surveying.
To practice all areas of Surveying, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Surveying Questions and Answers – Field Astronomy – Astronomical Corrections» Next - Surveying Questions and Answers – Field Astronomy – Zenith Telescope 
