1. Which of the following can be affected by atmospheric path disturbances?
a) Modern GPS surveying
b) Conventional GPS
c) Absolute positioning
d) Resection method
a
2. Which among the following can be described as an application of pseudo ranging?
a) Computation of distance between satellite and user
b) Computation of distance between GPS antenna and satellite
c) Computation of distance between GPS antenna and user
d) Computation of distance between satellite and object
b
3. By using pseudo ranging method, two dimensional and three dimensional GPS positions can be located.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Which of the following error occurs due to atmospheric conditions?
a) Natural error
b) User error
c) Propagation error
d) Signal multipath error
d
5. Which of the following is not used in the tracking system?
a) Multiple frequency
b) Dual frequency
c) Single frequency
d) Military navigation
a
6. Which of the following doesn’t belong to the relative positioning techniques?
a) Real-time kinematic technique
b) Viscous GPS technique
c) Kinematic GPS surveying technique
d) Differential GPS technique
b
7. Which of the following classes of positioning technique possess high precision?
a) GPS
b) Viscous technique
c) Real time technique
d) Kinematic technique
d
8. Which among the following indicates the correct set of static GPS surveying technology classification?
a) Long and normal base lines
b) Medium and short baselines
c) Long and short baselines
d) Normal and short base lines
c
9. What will be the length of the base line in case of short baseline method of GPS surveying?
a) Less than 50km
b) Greater than 50km
c) Less than 2km
d) Greater than 100km
a
10. Which of the following is considered as modern GPS technology?
a) GIS
b) GPS mode
c) Instantaneous mode
d) Kinematic positioning technique
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Surveying.
To practice all areas of Surveying, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Surveying Questions and Answers – GPS – Calculation of User Position» Next - Surveying Questions and Answers – GPS Accuracy 
