1. The state amplifier has no input is not called ______________
a) Zero signal condition
b) Non-signal condition
c) Quiescent condition
d) Empty-signal condition
d
2. Which of the following is not considered for quiescent operating point?
a) DC collector-emitter voltage
b) DC collector current
c) DC base current
d) DC input voltage
d
3. Which of the following resistor is not involving in biasing the circuit shown below?
a) R1
b) R2
c) RC
d) RL
d
4. Which of the following statements is most correct to explain role of biasing circuit in the implementation of a transistor circuit?
a) It is used provide proper voltage to every component in the circuit
b) It is used to ensure maximum power is obtained out of the circuit
c) It is used to provide the quiescent collector current
d) It is used to provide proper and stable functional environment to all quiescent point parameters
d
5. What is the role of input capacitance in the transistor amplifying circuit?
a) To prevent input variation from reaching output
b) To prevent DC content in the input from reaching transistor
c) There isn’t any role for input capacitance
d) To increase input impedance
b
6. What is the role of emitter bypass capacitance in the transistor amplifying circuit?
a) To prevent damage of emitter resistance from variation in voltage
b) To prevent emitter from over voltage
c) To increase gain
d) To increase load to transistor circuit
c
7. Which of the following is actually not a function of emitter bypass capacitor?
a) Increase gain
b) Lower the impedance of emitter resistance
c) Provide a low reactance path
d) Help emitter resistance to withstand voltage variation
d
8. What is the role of emitter resistance in the transistor amplifying circuit?
a) To prevent thermal runaway
b) To prevent increase in gain
c) To lower the output impedance
d) To increase gain
a
9. Which of the following is not true regarding the output capacitor in the transistor biasing circuit?
a) To pass AC signal
b) To stop DC signal
c) To couple the amplifier to load or next amplifier
d) There is no importance for an output capacitance
d
10. Which of the following is the best biasing method for transistor bias?
a) emitter bias
b) voltage divider bias
c) fixed bias
d) collector feedback bias
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analog Circuits.
To practice all areas of Analog Circuits, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analog Circuits Questions and Answers – Transistor Switching Network» Next - Analog Circuits Questions and Answers – Hybrid Equivalent Model 
