1. For a BJT, what is typically the shape of the power dissipation curve, if it’s plotted on the output characteristics?
a) Parabola
b) Linear
c) Hyperbola
d) Circular
c
2. What is the region on the output characteristics below IC = ICEO line called?
a) Active region
b) Cutoff region
c) Saturation region
d) Active & Saturation region
b
3. What is the region on the output characteristics for VCE < VCEsat called?
a) Active region
b) Cutoff region
c) Saturation region
d) Active & Cutoff region
c
4. From the given characteristics, the value of VCEsat is closest to which of the following values?
a) 0.3 V
b) 1 V
c) 5 V
d) 20V
a
5. Given that the collector power dissipation is 300 mW, what is the value of collector current for the collector to emitter voltage = 12 V?
a) 50 mA
b) 0 mA
c) 25 mA
d) 100 mA
b
6. Given that the collector power dissipation is 300 mW, what is the value of collector to emitter voltage for collector current = 50 mA?
a) 6 V
b) 3 V
c) 0 V
d) 2 v
a
7. From the given curve tracer response, what is the value of β for IC = 7 mA and VCE = 5 V?
a) 150
b) 180
c) 250
d) 120
b
8. If the positive lead of a DMM, with the mode set to ohmmeter is connected to the base and the negative lead to the emitter and a low resistance reading is obtained, then what is the type of transistor that is being tested?
a) NPN
b) PNP
c) Faulty transistor
d) Not a transistor, it is a FET
a
9. If the positive lead of a DMM, with the mode set to ohmmeter is connected to the base and the negative lead to the emitter and a high resistance reading is obtained, then what is the type of transistor that is being tested?
a) npn
b) pnp
c) faulty
d) not a transistor, it is a FET
a
10. For the given transistor, what is the correct sequence of the pins from left to right?
a) ECB
b) BCE
c) CEB
d) CBE
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analog Circuits.
To practice all areas of Analog Circuits, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analog Electronic Circuits Questions and Answers – BJT Construction and Operation» Next - Analog Electronic Circuits Questions and Answers – BJT DC biasing – Fixed Bias and Emitter Bias 
