1. What is the basis on principle of automatic control of combustion is determined?
a) Control of fuel supply to the boiler
b) Speed of rotation of fans
c) Control of combustion
d) Control of steam pressure
c
2. What quantities need to maintained/regulated for effective control of combustion?
a) Induced draught and forced draught fans pressure
b) Air and steam gauge pressure
c) Fuel flowing out of stoker
d) Air and fuel supply
d
3. What is necessary to ensure products of combustion flow into the chimney?
a) Air speed
b) Draft in the chimney
c) Differential gas pressure
d) Swirl flow of exhaust air
c
4. When does automatic control system of combustion come into operation?
a) When there is no fluctuation in furnace draft
b) When there is variation in steam flow rate
c) When the draft connection is clogged
d) When there is minimal amount of air supply
b
5. Which is the component that maintains forces in whole automatic combustion control system?
a) Steam pressure gauge
b) Fan vanes
c) Master controller
d) Relay 1 & 2
c
6. When does master controller comes into action?
a) When there is variation in steam flow rate
b) When there is variation in fuel supply
c) When there is variation in steam pressure
d) When there is variation in draught fans
c
7. When does relay’s 1 and 2 come into operation?
a) When there are changes in steam pressure
b) When there is change in forced draught
c) When there is change in steam flow rate
d) When there is change in induced draught
d
8. What is the purpose of Automatic combustion control system?
a) To get constant steam pressure
b) To maintain steady state combustion
c) To get constant steam output
d) To save the time and manual labour
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy Engineering.
To practice all areas of Energy Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Calorific Value of Fuels – 2» Next - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Fuel Burning 
