1. Open cooling system is also called as ____________
a) parallel system
b) once through system
c) air based system
d) non-reversible system
b
2. How many number of spray nozzle does each module on spray pond cooling system contains?
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4
d
3. Which of the following is the simplest method of cooling the condenser water?
a) Spray cooling pond
b) Cooling tower
c) Indirect air cooling
d) Hyperbolic cooling tower
a
4. In which type of cooling pond system are nozzles arranged on same elevation?
a) Single deck system
b) Double deck system
c) Natural Flow system
d) Direct flow system
a
5. In which type of cooling system are nozzles arranged on different elevation?
a) Single deck system
b) Double deck system
c) Natural Flow system
d) Direct flow system
b
6. What are used in the direct flow system to transverse the pond before uniting at intake?
a) Separators
b) Filters
c) Baffle walls
d) Porous pipes
c
7. Select the disadvantage of cooling pond out of the given?
a) The area required of cooling in a cooling pond is small
b) Spray losses due to evaporation and windage run high
c) There is no control over the temperature of cooled water
d) The cooling efficiency is low compared with cooling water
c
8. What type of cooling system is used in the large power plants?
a) Cooling ponds
b) Natural flow system
c) Cooling towers
d) Single deck system
c
9. How does outside air enter into the wet cooling system?
a) Air vents
b) Louvers
c) Tuyeres
d) Vacuum
b
10. How is water circulated throughout the dry cooling tower system?
a) Finned tubes
b)  Metal pipes
c) Porous tubes
d) Swirling tubes
a
11. Why is exhaust steam coming out of turbine is admitted to a steam header?
a) To increase the pressure
b) To decrease the velocity
c) To decrease the pressure drop
d) To control the pollution
c
12. In which system is Cooling of hot water is done on tray as step by?
a) Mechanical draught cooling system
b) Hyperbolic cooling tower
c) Atmospheric cooling tower
d) Wet cooling tower
c
13. How does the flow of air occur in natural draught cooling towers?
a) Natural pressure head density between cold outside air and humid inside air
b) Variation in pressure of both cold outside air and humid inside air
c) Due to the given air vents and vacuum ports
d) Because of difference in the volume of both the of airs
a
14. How is air produced in mechanical draught cooling tower?
a) Air Tuyeres
b) Propeller fans
c) Air blowers
d) Louvre
b
15. Why is induced draught considered better than the forced draught?
a) Because power requirement is high for forced draught
b) Maintenance of induced draught fan is costlier
c) Forced draught is less efficient
d) Forced draught produces less amount of speed of air
a
 Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy Engineering.
To practice all areas of Energy Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Ash and its Effects on Boiler Operation and Performance» Next - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Boiler Mounting Accessories – 1 
