1. How is coal pulverized in the ball mill?
a) By rotating the cylinder
b) By rolling the cylinder
c) By hammering the cylinder
d) By jolting the cylinder
a
2. Why pre-heater air and the tempered air are introduced in the pulverizer of ball mill?
a) To carry the ash out
b) To increase the combustion rate
c) To carry pulverized coal
d) To dry the coal by removing the moisture
c
3. The output of the mill can be controlled by the _________ located in the exhaust fan inlet duct.
a) Dampers
b) Blowers
c) Air duct
d) Ventilator’s
a
4. Feeder output in cylinder of a ball mill is regulated on the basis of?
a) Cylinder capacity
b) No of balls
c) Level of coal
d) Rotation speed of cylinder
c
5. What is the pulverization capacity of the ball mill?
a) 10 tons of coal per hour
b) 20 tons of coal per hour
c) 50 tons of coal per hour
d) 80 tons of coal per hour
a
6. Why ball and race mill is also called as contact mill?
a) Because of rolling action between the balls and races
b) Because of ramming action between balls and races
c) Because of swirling action of balls and races
d) Because of mixture of balls and races
a
7. The pulverization is completed by a combination of crushing impact and _______ between grinding surfaces.
a) Accretion
b) Erosion
c) Attrition
d) Dissolution
c
8. What type of feeder is used to supply the coal in ball and race mill?
a) Ring main feeder
b) Parallel feeder
c) Radial feeder
d) Rotating table feeder
d
9. Which type of fan is used in the ball and race mill?
a) Forced draught fan
b) Balanced draught fan
c) Artificial draught fan
d) Natural draught fan
a
10. What is the purpose of fixed vanes in the ball and race mill?
a) Forms a cyclonic flow
b) For easy movement of the coal
c) For directing the airflow
d) For barring the exhaust air to enter back into mill
a
11.  Why are heavy impurities provided in the process of ball and race mill?
a) To resist upward thrust caused by secondary air stream
b) To resist downward thrust caused by primary air stream
c) To resist upward thrust caused by primary air stream
d) To resist downward thrust caused by secondary air stream
c
12. What is done when there is requirement for more coal in the ball and race mill?
a) The primary air flow is increased
b) The combustion intensity is reduced
c) The secondary air flow sucks out the light coal particles
d) The hopper is fully opened
a
13. What happens due to the pressure in the pulverizer?
a) Pulverized fuel is blown into boiler room
b) Increases the rate of combustion
c) Makes the process is vigorous
d) The large particles in the pulverized fuels are removed out
a
14. What is the main disadvantage of race and ball mill pulverizer?
a) Mill requires extra floor area
b) It is directly connected to the motor
c) High power consumption
d) Greater wear
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy Engineering.
To practice all areas of Energy Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Pulverised Fuel Handling» Next - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Pulverised Mills – 2 
