1. Why do large power plants use pulverized fuel firing system?
a) Higher thermal efficiency
b) Uses high grade coal
c) Less smoke formation
d) Troubles created in this system are less
a
2. How is the fuel selected in the pulverized fuel system?
a) Depending on its size
b) Depending on its grade
c) Depending on volatile matter content
d) Depending the chemical composition
c
3. What is the advantage of using pulverized fuel firing system?
a) Decreases maintenance of plant
b) Less wastage of the products
c) Less ash formation
d) No formation of clinkers
a
4. What is unit pulverizer system also called?
a) Burner and pulverizer firing system
b) Central system firing system
c) Bin system firing system
d) Direct firing system
d
5. On which factor is the coal fed to the pulverizing mill in pulverized fuel firing system?
a) Steam generating rate
b) Capacity of intake of coal
c) On the rate of speed of the feeder
d) Depending on the temperature that is governed inside the combustion chamber
a
6. Which type of draught system is used in the pulverized fuel firing system?
a) Forced draught
b) Balanced draught
c) Induced draught
d) Natural draught
c
7. Which system was used before direct firing system in pulverized fuel firing?
a) Unit system
b) Burner and pulverizer system
c) Bin system
d) Pulverizer
c
8. Why is direct firing system considered better than bin system in pulverizer fuel firing?
a) It has long operating procedure
b) The auxiliaries used in system consume large amount of power
c) The initial cost of system is very high
d) The transportation of coal is much more complex
a
9. Which separator is used to separate the pulverized coal in pulverized fuel firing?
a) Central inlet separator
b) Magnetic separator
c) Cyclone separator
d) Inertial separator
c
10. What is used to remove moisture air after cyclone separation in the pulverized fuel system?
a) Sponge pad
b) Dry filters
c) Fabric bag
d) Hot air
c
11. In what manner is the coal is fed to all the burners in pulverized fuel system?
a) Through a common feeder
b) Parallel feeding
c) From separate feeder
d) Series mesh feeding
c
 Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy Engineering.
To practice all areas of Energy Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Pulverised Fuel Burning» Next - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Pulverised Mills – 1 
