1. What is the range of power that diesel engine plants produce?
a) 1 to 50MW
b) 50 to 100MW
c) 40 to 80MW
d) 200 to 300MW
a
2. Diesel engine plants are not more efficient than any other heat engines of comparable size.
a) True
b) False
b
3. What is the use of Air filter in the Diesel engine plant?
a) Air filter cools down the air
b) Air filter changes direction of air flow
c) Air filter removes dust from air
d) Air filter helps in flow of fuel
c
4. What is the necessity of supercharger in the diesel engine plants?
a) Supercharger helps in drawing out heat from engine
b) Supercharger supports engine as auxiliary source of power
c) Supercharger improves engine efficiency
d) Supercharger increases pressure of air
d
5. What is requirement of cooling system in diesel plants?
a) Eliminate hotness of air entering into the filter
b) To act as a filter for main fuel tank
c) Eliminate heat coming out of engine
d) To cool down lubrication system
c
6. What is the need for lubrication system in the Diesel engine plant?
a) To act a coolant in the diesel engine plant
b) To act as emulsifying agent for the fuel
c) To eliminate friction between the mating parts
d) To improve the efficiency of the fuel used
c
7. How is governing of fuel done?
a) By varying fuel supply
b) By pressure of fuel supply
c) By adding emulsifying agents
d) By sprinkling the fuel
a
8. Small service storage tanks in a fuel system of diesel plant are known as ________
a) temporary fuel tank
b) engine day tank
c) reserve
d) main fuel tank
b
9. How amount of storage of fuel is done?
a) A week’s requirement
b) For 4 day requirement
c) For a Month’s requirement
d) For annual requirement
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy Engineering.
To practice all areas of Energy Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Boiler Mounting Accessories – 2» Next - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Fuel System 
