1. In which mill is the pulverization of coal is made by the impact?
a) Hammer mill
b) Bowl mill
c) Ball mill
d) Ball and race mill
a
2. What is done in the primary stage of the grinding in impact mill?
a) Coal is reduced to fine granular state
b) Coal is broken down in medium pieces
c) Coal is dried up to remove the moisture content
d) Coal is mixed up with the other state of fuel to improve the combustion efficiency
a
3. What is the purpose of rotary scoop shaped rejecter arms in impact mill?
a) To send back the coal back into grinder for second run
b) To throw the large particles back into the grinder
c) To eliminate ash from the pulverizer
d) To eliminate rocks and solid particles that has mixed up with the coal
b
4. How is pulverization done in bowl mill?
a) By bowl and steel balls
b) By bowl and roller
c) By bowl and impact hammer
d) By bowl and batan
b
5. What does the primary air that is induced by draught does in a bowl mill?
a) Blows away ash
b) Control the flow of coal
c) Provides air for the combustion
d) Draws heated air
d
6. Which force is used to throw away the heavy particles in the bowl mill?
a) Gravity force
b) Centrifugal force
c) Centripetal force
d) Spring force
b
7. On what basis is selection of bowl mill is not done?
a) Total moisture content of coal
b) Volatile matter
c) Ash producing capacity
d) Grindability
c
8. What is not the cause of mill fire?
a) Hot startup with normal load
b) Pyrite building from pyrite plows failure
c) Accumulation of coal dust in mill devices
d) Localized hot spots from poor primary air flow
a
 Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy Engineering.
To practice all areas of Energy Engineering for Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Pulverised Mills – 1» Next - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Fuel Burning Equipments 
