1. What is the function of coal burners?
a) To burn pulverized coal by using secondary air
b) To burn pulverized coal in presence of Primary and secondary air
c) To burn pulverized coal by using induced draught
d) To burn the pulverized coal in short amount of time
b
2. Which coal burner is called Long-flame burner?
a) Tangential burner
b) Turbulent burner
c) Stream line burner
d) Cyclone burner
c
3. The secondary air in the stream-liner coal burner is fed flames from which direction?
a) At straight angle
b) Opposite to the fuel flow
c) At Right angle
d) Along the fuel
c
4. Which coal burner has the circular discharge orifices?
a) Tangential burner
b) Stream-line burner
c) Turbulent burner
d) Cyclone burner
c
5. In which coal burners are fuel and air streams ejected in horizontal direction?
a) Tangential burner
b) Cyclone burner
c) Stream-line burner
d) Turbulent burner
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Which coal burner is used to burn crushed coal instead of pulverized coal?
a) Cyclone burner
b) Tangential burner
c) Turbulent burner
d) Stream-line burner
a
7. In which form does the coal burned rapidly in cyclone burner drains down the inner wall of furnace?
a) Powdered
b) In form of small chips
c) Metal slag
d) Gaseous form
c
8. Which type of oil burners are used for domestic purposes?
a) Atomizing burner
b) Vaporizing burner
c) Steam jet atomization burner
d) Mechanical atomization burner
b
9. Which type of oil burners are commonly used in oil-fired furnaces of steam generators?
a) Vaporizing burner
b) Mechanical burner
c) Atomizing burner
d) Air jet burner
c
10. How is oil pressurized in mechanical atomization of atomizing burner of oil burners?
a) By positive displacement pumps
b) By centrifugal pumps
c) Helicon-axial pumps
d) Electric submersible
a
11. How does atomization of fuel occur in an atomizing burner of oil burner?
a) High pressure movement of fuels
b) By spraying the fuel at high pressure
c) By impinging two streams of fuel
d) By spark ignition method
c
12. Which type of gas burner is used to control flame length?
a) Ring burner
b) Sealed burner
c) Electric burner
d) Standing pilot burner
a
 Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy Engineering.
To practice all areas of Energy Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Pulverised Mills – 2» Next - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Fuel Handling System, Storage of Coal 
