1. In which mode of transport are rotary car dumpers used?
a) Road transport
b) Rail transport
c) Transport by sea or river
d) Inside the plant handling
b
2. What is the function of sizer in coal handling?
a) To separate the coal depending on size
b) To check the amount of fuel that is supplied
c) To pick the coal of required size
d) To divert the coal flow into different burners
c
3. What is the function of magnetic separator in coal handling?
a) To remove impurities
b) To separate bituminous coal
c) To remove iron particles
d) To separate metal contents
c
4. What is the purpose of bucket elevators in coal handling?
a) Used to move coal horizontally
b) Used to lift coal vertically
c) Used to separate the crushed coal and pulverized coal
d) Used to pour the coal vertically at right angles into furnace
b
5. What is the function of Gab bucket conveyor in coal handling?
a) To lift the coal vertically
b) To crush the coal
c) To move coal from one place to another
d) To separate crushed coal and powdered coal
c
6. Out of all conveyors which type of conveyor has a greater capacity to convey large amount of coal?
a) Belt conveyor
b) Chain conveyor
c) Screw conveyor
d) Scraper conveyor
a
7. What is the distance at which belt conveyors can convey?
a) 100m
b) 200m
c) 50m
d) 500m
d
8. To what is helicoids screw in screw conveyor is attached?
a) To the shaft
b) To the inner case
c) To the bearings
d) To the outer casing
a
9. In what speed range does screw conveyor run at?
a) 60 – 80 rpm
b) 20 – 100 rpm
c) 60 – 120 rpm
d) 90 to 180 rpm
c
10. Which type of conveyor has shorter life span?
a) Flight conveyor
b) Belt conveyor
c) Screw conveyor
d) Grab bucket conveyor
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy Engineering.
To practice all areas of Energy Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Fuel Handling System, Storage of Coal» Next - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Coal Weighing Methods 
