1. How is the fuel handled generally outside the plant?
a) Mechanically
b) Manually
c) Robotic technology
d) Physically
a
2. Why is fuel need to be stocked in steam power plant?
a) To supply to nearby other steam plants
b) For overusing when plant is run for extra periods
c) For emergency possible cases
d) For Non-stop work of power plant
c
3. What is the ideal site for power plant?
a) In hilly regions
b) On islands
c) Near water resources
d) In center lands
c
4. Which type of transportation system is ideal for transporting coal directly to the point of consumption?
a) Road transportation
b) Sea or river transportation
c) Transportation by rail
d) Transportation by air
a
5. What is in plant coal handling system?
a) Maintenance of coal during emergencies
b) Maintenance of coal inside the boiler
c) Maintenance of coal inside the power production area
d) Maintenance of coal while transporting/moving it
c
6. What is the main characteristic of in plant coal handling system?
a) It should be easy to handle
b) Should be simple in construction
c) Free from repetitive handling
d) Free from corrosion problems
c
7. Why is it necessary to have a coal storage yard near the plant?
a) To supply to other nearby power plants
b) To cut down on varying transportation rates
c) To face any emergencies
d) Due to higher rate of deterioration due to reduction
c
8. Where should coal be dumped?
a) On solid ground
b) In the water
c) By mixing with other form of fuels
d) Near the plant
a
9. What is the advantage of stocking the coal in huge heaps?
a) Prevents from coal being oxidized
b) Provides grip for the storage
c) Prevents air circulation in the interior of heap
d) The moisture content will be eliminated
c
10. How the oxidation of coal is eliminated?
a) By exposing it to the sunlight
b) By turning the entire coal heap upside down periodically
c) By circulating air uniformly
d) By burning coal at very high temperatures
c
11. Why is it necessary to use noncandescent materials in place of coal storage area?
a) To avoid it from catching fire
b) To act as a fire resistor during the cause of fire
c) To avoid it from acting as a supporter of fire
d) To provide a cool environment
a
 Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy Engineering.
To practice all areas of Energy Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Fuel Burning Equipments» Next - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Stages of Coal Handling 
