1. What is the function of boiler?
a) To burn the fuel in a confined closed system with the supply of air
b) To generate steam at varying pressure
c) To generate steam at constant pressure
d) To produce flue gases by burning fuel at a given pressure
c
2. Why single boiler unit per turbine is equipped commonly?
a) For better turbine control
b) To deduce the costs
c) For overcoming losses of power
d) To improve the efficiency
a
3. What is the critical average pressure at which the single boiler unit per turbines is designed to handle?
a) 150 bar
b) 220 bar
c) 740 bar
d) 575 bar
b
4. How can be the plant efficiency of steam power plant is increased?
a) By using high pressure and high temperature steam
b) By equipping ash and flue gas clearance system
c) By maintaining the boiler on daily basis by cleaning the soot and combustion products
d) By using better and efficient type of fuel for combustion
a
5. Which type of boilers is preferred cost wise when the boilers are required to raise less than 30 tonnes of steam?
a) Flued boiler
b) Cornish boiler
c) Butterley boiler
d) Shell boiler
d
6. What is the temperature at which the steam boilers are capable to withstand?
a) 200oC
b) 280oC
c) 540oC
d) 358oC
c
7. The _________ may have water circulation either by natural means due to difference in density or by external means.
a) Piping
b) Tubes
c) Furnace
d) Boiler
d
8. What increases as steam pressure increases inside a boiler?
a) Force
b) Density
c) Rate of steam conversion
d) Viscosity
b
9. What is needed to be increased to increase the heat transfer rate in the boiler?
a) Gas velocities
b) Fuel input
c) Water velocities
d) Air supply
c
10. In what is water in high pressure boiler circulated through?
a) Conduits
b) Cove
c) Channel
d) Tubes
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy Engineering.
To practice all areas of Energy Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Soot Blowers» Next - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Boiler Classification 
