1. On what basis are fire and water tube boilers are classified?
a) Depending the combustion products formed
b) Depending the state of fuel
c) Depending on the steam formation rate
d) Depending tubular heating surface
d
2. Cornish boiler is an example of which type of boiler?
a) Fire tube boiler
b) Water tube boiler
c) Vertical tube boiler
d) Externally fired boiler
a
3. Stirling boiler is an example of which type of boiler?
a) Inclined tube boilers
b) Mobile boiler
c) Fire tube boiler
d) Water tube boiler
d
Ex: Babcock-Wilcox boiler, Stirling boiler.
4. Which of these is a stationary boiler?
a) Locomotive boiler
b) Marine boiler
c) Mobile boiler
d) Babcock-Wilcox boiler
d
5. Which of these is a mobile boiler?
a) Lancashire boiler
b) Stirling boiler
c) Locomotive boiler
d) Cochran boiler
c
6. Which type of boiler is it when the furnace is placed in the region of boiling water?
a) Internally fired boiler
b) Externally fired boiler
c) Babcock-Wilcox boiler
d) Stirling boiler
a
7. Are boilers defined on the basis of heat source.
a) Yes
b) No
a
8. What is the steam pressure limit of natural circulation boilers?
a) 650bar
b) 180bar
c) 400bar
d) 550bar
b
9. Which type of boilers use orifice to control the flow circulation?
a) Natural circulation boilers
b) Forced convection boilers
c) Once-through boilers
d) Positive forced circulation boilers
b
10. Which of the given boilers operate above critical pressure?
a) Natural circulation boilers
b) Forced circulation boilers
c) Once-through boilers
d) Water tube boilers
c
11. Which type of boilers are called drum-less boilers?
a) Natural circulation boilers
b) Fire tube boilers
c) Positive forced circulation boiler
d) Forced circulation boiler
c
12. What is the advantage of having smaller ratio of water to steam space?
a) Steam can be generated at a faster even if the boiler is cold
b) Increases the rate of evaporation
c) Water is made cyclic, i.e., from boiler drum to water tube and back to drum
d) Helps in mobilizing the boiler
a
13. Chances of sediments depositing inside the water tubes in the shell is less due to?
a) Low working pressure
b) Natural circulation of water
c) Partial circulation of water
d) High working pressure
d
14. Out of the given option choose the advantage that supports fire tube boilers?
a) Water circulation is cyclic
b) Used as a mobile boiler
c) Water circulation is limited inside boiler shell
d) Bursting of flue tube does not cause any explosion
c
15. Which are the major types of boilers that are operated in world today?
a) Natural circulation boiler
b) Forced circulation boiler
c) Fire tube boiler
d) Once through boiler
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy Engineering.
To practice all areas of Energy Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy Engineering Question and Answers – Function of Boilers» Next - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Types of High Pressure Boilers – 1 
