1. The method of removing soot from the power plant machineries is known as _________
a) Soot cleansing
b) Centrifugation
c) Soot blowing
d) Bioleaching
d
2. Why nozzle tubes are provided in the soot blowers?
a) To moistures the dust
b) To admit high pressure steam
c) To blow away the soot
d) To suck in the dust and exhaust it at high pressure
b
3. Which type of blower advances into the furnace, cleans and comes back?
a) Wall blower
b) Retractable blower
c) Air heat blower
d) Insert able kinetic blower
b
4. Why are there number soot blower units in large blower?
a) To obtain high efficiency
b) To clean the boiler in short amount of time
c) To clean adequately
d) For easy replacement
c
5. Why operating heads of soot blowers are automated?
a) Because they are tedious to operate manually
b) Because they cannot be handled at once
c) Because they are positioned at different parts of machine
d) Because it is quicker by automation
a
6. Why on some boilers the draft system controls have to be positioned abnormally in soot blowers?
a) To avoid the soot being blown back into boiler
b) To get a good grip for blowing out the soot from the boiler
c) due to lack of space in the boiler
d) To avoid the heat of boiler affecting the soot blowers
a
7. In which state would be the soot blower when it’s not in use?
a) Dry and cooled
b) Dry and uncooled
c) Wet and cooled
d) Dry and hot
b
8. What is the advantage of using retractable soot blower?
a) Has high blowing capacity compared to steam and wall blowers
b) Protects from high temperatures when not in use
c) Consumes less amount of electricity
d) Produces less amount of noise
b
9. Why is it necessary to observe temperature drops in the soot blower?
a) To avoid net loss
b) To avoid the soot getting struck in soot blower
c) To avoid over usage
d) To avoid overconsumption of electricity
a
10. Is there a chance of fire due to the accumulation soot inside the boiler.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy Engineering.
To practice all areas of Energy Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Mechanical Dust Collectors» Next - Energy Engineering Question and Answers – Function of Boilers 
