1. What does ESP stand for in dust collection?
a) Endothermic sensor plate
b) Extrasensory perception
c) Electrostatic precipitators
d) Electronic stability program
c
2. What happens when high voltage is applied to the electrodes in electric dust collectors?
a) Forms uniform electric field
b) Corona is formed
c) The whole system gets charged
d) Ions move from emitting electrode to collecting electrode
b
3. Why is weighment of the coal essential in the plants?
a) For knowing the quantity of the coal present
b) For getting optimum efficiency
c) For knowing which type of coal has good fuel content
d) To separate the grades of coal
b
4. Which type of weigher is commonly used all over the world?
a) Electronic weighers
b) Mechanical weighers
c) Pneumatic weighers
d) Nuclear weighers
b
5. Which type of weighers is used in place where the electronic weighers are not allowed?
a) Pneumatic weighers
b) Mechanical weighers
c) Nuclear weighers
d) Electronic weighers
a
6. Electronic weighers are based on which principle?
a) Semiconductor principle
b) Electromagnetic principle
c) Load cell principle
d) Junctions
c
7. What types of rays does the nuclear weigher used to measure the weight?
a) Infrared rays
b) Ultraviolet rays
c) Gamma rays
d) X-ray waves
c
8. What is the main disadvantage of the nuclear weigher?
a) They are not mobile
b) Accuracy depends on speed of material
c) They are big in size, requires large amount of space
d) Consumes large amount of electricity
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy Engineering.
To practice all areas of Energy Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Stages of Coal Handling» Next - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Mechanical Dust Collectors 
