1. How is the coal fed to the grate in over feed system?
a) Above the point of air admission
b) Between the beds of incandescent coke and green coal
c) Above the ash bed
d) Between the point of air admission
a
2. The amount of CO2 formed in overfeed system entirely depends on ___________
a) Amount of ash produced
b) Carbon content in fuel
c) Rate of air supply
d) Intensity of process
c
3. Which is the zone where the water vapors carried in air reacts with carbon in over-feed system?
a) Green coal bed zone
b) Incandescent zone
c) Combustion zone
d) At the ash pit
b
4. How is volatile matter of raw coal is lost in the overfeed system?
a) Condensation
b) Distillation
c) Combustion
d) Evaporation
b
5. Where does the ignition zone lie in overfeed system?
a) Below the raw fuel undergoing distillation
b) Below the combustion zone
c) In between coke bed and flame zone
d) Between coke bed and green coal bed
a
6. Why is secondary air supplied in overfeed system?
a) To burn the unburnt gases
b) To maintain constant heat intensity
c) To completely remove water vapors formed due to primary air supply
d) To create distillation process for the raw coal supplied
a
7. Why does burnt gases with content of N2, CO2, H2, O2 and H2O re-enter the boiler in overfeed system?
a) To dismiss the ash content in the gases formed
b) Due to incomplete burning
c) For complete removal of moisture
d) To complete the burn the coal
b
8. In which direction does fuel, coke and ash in fuel bed move with respect to air and gases in overfeed system?
a) Upward direction
b) Same direction
c) Opposite direction
d) Downward direction
c
9. In which direction does fuel and air in under-feed system move?
a) Opposite
b) Across
c) Same direction
d) Counter direction
c
10. Which is the process from which heat for distillation comes, in under feed system?
a) Conduction
b) Combustion
c) Synthesis reaction
d) Circulation of hot air gases
a
11. Which reaction differs over feed and under feed system?
a) Changes occurring in physical properties of the system
b) Breaking of molecular structure
c) Changes in chemical composition
d) Existence of volatile matter
b
12. What is the purpose of secondary fan’s air in under feed system?
a) To support gases coming out of fuel bed
b) To clear the ash from the upper beds
c) To maintain constant pressure in system
d) To support combustion of system
a
13. What is the significance of rate at which air is supplied in the under feed system?
a) Increase depth of incandescent zone
b) Pushes up ignition zone
c) Burns fuel for long time
d) Supports combustion
a
14. Which type of coal is used in the under feed system?
a) Anthracite coal
b) Bituminous coal
c) Briquette coal
d) Pulverized coal
b
15. Why does over feed burning system takes longer time for complete burning?
a) The volatile matter will be cooler at initial
b) Due to the presence of dust and ash
c) The effect of design of system
d) Effects of air fuels on the system
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy Engineering.
To practice all areas of Energy Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Fuel Burning» Next - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Type of Stokers – 1 
