1. What type of draught fan is used to draw air from the air heater?
a) Balanced draught fan
b) Induced draught fan
c) Forced draught fan
d) Artificial draught fan
c
2. In what form are the products of combustion in steam powered plant?
a) Air products
b) Flue gas
c) Slurry
d) Hot water
b
3. How flue gas is made use of in steam power plant?
a) To maintain the constant pressure inside boiler
b) To heat the water in the tubes of boiler
c) To increase or decrease the pressure inside the boiler
d) To remove all unnecessary chemical constituents
b
4. How is flue gas discharged through the chimneys?
a) By using induced draught fan
b) By using balanced draught fan
c) By using forced draught fan
d) By using mechanical draught fan
a
5. What is the purpose of chimney?
a) To provide air ventilation
b) To eliminate noise produced in the system
c) To exhaust flue gases those is induced
d) To help in to suck the air required for system
c
6. What is the advantage of using flue gas inside a boiler?
a) Heats up boiler water tube quickly
b) Reduces the amount of amount of exhaust
c) Speeds of the process of boiler
d) Reduces the green house of effect
d
7. How is water pumped into condenser tubes in the steam power plant?
a) Water clarifier plant
b) Draught systems
c) Hydraulic capacity electric motor pump
d) Drawing through water
a
8. When is the cooling tower preferred?
a) When there is plenty of water available
b) When there is scarcity of water
c) When the plant is of large capacity
d) When the amount of flue gas produced is very high
b
9. What type of system is it, when the water is directly is used to condense the steam?
a) Closed system
b) Open system
c) Closed loop system
d) Open loop system
b
10. How is the amount of cooling required by the steam power plant determined?
a) By the capacity of plant
b) By the amount of exhausted gas
c) By its thermal efficiency
d) By the type of fuel used (coal or uranium)
c
11. How much amount of water does typical 1GWe plant uses for cooling per day?
a) 30 mega litre
b) 45 mega litre
c) 55 mega litre
d) 75 mega litre
d
12. What type of system is it when the cooling tower is preferred?
a) Closed system
b) Open system
c) Closed loop system
d) Open loop system
a
13. What is the alternative cooling method for the thermal plant?
a) Wet cooling
b) Evaporation cooling
c) Dry cooling
d) Central air damping
c
14. How can we achieve high thermal efficiency in a power plant?
a) Drawing high output with limited input
b) Decreasing the working temperature
c) Increasing the working temperature
d) Maintain large temperature differential
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy Engineering.
To practice all areas of Energy Engineering, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Cool and Ash Handling System – 2» Next - Energy Engineering Questions and Answers – Feed Water and Steam Generation System, Working of Thermal Power Plant 
