1. Which of the following is a character of ORF?
a) Contiguous
b) 3 – nucleotide codons
c) Intron
d) Non – overlapping
c
2. With respect to the open reading frame (ORF) which of the following is wrong?
a) Starts at 5’ end
b) ‘AUG’ is the only start codon for both prokaryotes and eukaryotes
c) The start codon defines the reading frame for all the subsequent codons
d) The stop codon is distinct from the ends of the mRNA
b
3. With respect to polycistronic mRNAs which of the following is wrong?
a) Multiple ORFs
b) Found in eukaryotes
c) Encodes proteins with related functions
d) Multiple polypeptide chain
b
4. What was the name of the ribosome binding site?
a) ORF
b) RBS
c) A site
d) Shine – Dalgarno sequence
c
5. Which part of the ribosome identifies the Shine – Dalgarno sequence?
a) Protein
b) 16S rRNA
c) 23S rRNA
d) 5S rRNA
b
6. Eukaryotic mRNAs recruit ribosomes using the Shine – Dalgarno sequence.
a) True
b) False
b
7. Eukaryotic mRNA is read in the 3’ to 5’ direction.
a) True
b) False
b
8. Which one of the following is known as the Kozak sequence?
a) 5’…..CNNAUCG…..3’
b) 5’…..GNNAUGG…..3’
c) 5’…..TNNAUGG…..3’
d) 5’…..GNNAUGC…..3’
b
9. With respect to the composition of the ribosome which of the following is correct?
a) Ribosome is composed of 60S and 30S subunit
b) Eukaryotic ribosome small subunit contains only one 16S rRNA
c) 60S subunit consists of 5S rRNA and 23S rRNA
d) 60S and 40S makes up the 80S ribosome
d
10. Which element of the ribosome plays a key role in mRNA translation?
a) rRNA of the large subunit
b) Proteins of the large subunit
c) rRNA of the small subunit
d) Proteins of the small subunit
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Molecular Biology.
To practice all areas of Molecular Biology, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Molecular Biology Questions and Answers – Ribosomes Read the Genetic Code» Next - Molecular Biology Questions and Answers – Various Classes of RNA Have Different Functions – 2 
