1. Which of the following facilitates nucleosome positioning?
a) Nucleosome remodeling complex
b) Topoisomerase II
c) SMC protein
d) DNA – binding protein
d
2. Which of the following regions promote histone – DNA association?
a) A, T
b) A, G
c) G, C
d) C, T
a
3. With respect to end terminal modification of the histone tail which of the following options is true?
a) Lysine – phosphate modification
b) Serine – methylation
c) Acetylation – transcriptionally active
d) Modifications – involvement in gene expression
d
4. Which of the following is a function of a modified histone tail?
a) Association with adjacent nucleosome
b) Interaction with DNA backbone
c) Interaction with chromodomains
d) Formation of 40-fold DNA structure
c
5. Bromodomains of proteins are associated with phosphorylated histone tails.
a) True
b) False
b
6. Which of the following enzymes of transcription commonly contains a bromodomain?
a) TFIID
b) CDK
c) Pre – RC
d) DNA polymerase
a
7. Which of the following enzymes is not correctly paired with its function?
a) Acetyl transferase – adds acetyl group to lysine
b) Methyl transferase – adds methyl group to serine
c) Topoisomerase – associated with nuclear scaffold
d) Deacetylases – removes acetyl groups from serine
b
8. Which of the following is not promoted by histone tail modification?
a) Formation of repressive structures
b) Gene expression
c) Nucleosome remodeling
d) Nucleosome sliding
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Molecular Biology.
To practice all areas of Molecular Biology for Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Molecular Biology Questions and Answers – Genome Organization – 2» Next - Molecular Biology Questions and Answers – Repeated Sequences are a Feature of Eukaryotic DNA 
