1. Which of the following is not a part of a gene?
a) Ori
b) Promoter
c) Operon
d) Terminator
a
2. What is the correct order for increasing gene density?
a) Bacteria, Virus, Fruit fly, Human
b) Fruit fly, Bacteria, Virus, Human
c) Human, Fruit fly, Bacteria, Virus
d) Virus, Bacteria, Fruit fly, Human
c
3. Which of these factors contribute to a decrease in gene density?
a) Operon
b) Intergenic sequence
c) Exon sequence
d) Cell size
b
4. What do you think is the requirement of Intergenic DNA in higher organisms?
a) Just genetic load
b) To avoid viable mutations
c) Helps in regulation of transcription
d) Helps in genome organization
b
5. Which of the following is not a character of unique Intergenic DNA?
a) Mutant genes
b) Pseudogenes
c) Palindromes
d) Nonfunctional gene fragments
c
6. Which of the following is responsible for the formation of Pseudogenes?
a) Polymerase
b) Reverse transcriptase
c) Klenow fragment
d) Wrong primer
b
7. With respect to microsatellite DNA which of the following is correct?
a) Tandem repeats
b) Dinucleotide repeats
c) 100 bp units
d) Inaccurate duplicating
c
8. Genome – wide repeat unit are generally transposable elements.
a) True
b) False
a
9. Repeated DNA can be referred to as junk DNA.
a) True
b) False
b
10. The simpler the organism the more likely they are to have transposable elements.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Molecular Biology.
To practice all areas of Molecular Biology, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Molecular Biology Questions and Answers – Genome Organization – 3» Next - Molecular Biology Questions and Answers – Palindromes, Inverted Repeats and Stem and Loop Structures 
