1. A collection of data designed to be used by different people is called a/an
a) Organization
b) Database
c) Relationship
d) Schema
b
2. Which of the following is the oldest database model?
a) Relational
b) Deductive
c) Physical
d) Network
d
3. Which of the following is the process of selecting the data storage and data access characteristics of the database?
a) Logical database design
b) Physical database design
c) Testing and performance tuning
d) Evaluation and selecting
b
4. The relationship between DEPARTMENT and EMPLOYEE is a
a) One-to-one relationship
b) One-to-many relationship
c) Many-to-many relationship
d) Many-to-one relationship
b
5. If the state of the database no longer reflects a real state of the world that the database is supposed to capture, then such a state is called
a) Consistent state
b) Inconsistent state
c) Durable state
d) Atomic state
b
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. When an entity instance must be a member of only one sub-type, it is which of the following?
a) Disjoint with total specialization
b) Disjoint with partial specialization
c) Overlap with total specialization
d) Overlap with partial specialization
a
Considering that the relational database above is meant to represent total disjoint specialization, i.e. there is no table Student but rather two completely separate ones, when writing this in SQL in order to implement the database, how would I fetch the student id for the Teaches table? I cannot figure out how to make a foreign key from two different tables.
7. A supertype/subtype hierarchy is which of the following?
a) Each subtype has only one attribute
b) Each supertype has only one attribute
c) Each subtype has only one supertype
d) Each supertype has only one subtype
c
8. Which of the following statements concerning business rules is true?
a) It should be complex
b) It should not be convertible to computer code
c) It may include restrictions
d) All of the Mentioned
c
9. Use of a supertype/subtype relationship is necessary when which of the following exists?
a) An instance of a subtype participates in a relationship that is unique to that subtype
b) An instance of a subtype participates in a relationship that is the same as the other subtypes
c) Attributes apply to all of the instances of an entity type
d) No attributes apply to any of the instances of an entity type
a
10. Which of the following is not one of the three ways to classify an action assertion?
a) Condition
b) Integrity Control
c) Authorization
d) Enabler
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Oracle Database.
To practice all areas of Oracle Database, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Oracle Database Questions and Answers – Planning Oracle Applications – Approaches, Risks and Standards» Next - Oracle Database Questions and Answers – Data Entry, Query and Reporting 
