1. Database management systems are intended to _____________
a) Eliminate data redundancy
b) Establish relationship among records in different files
c) Manage file access
d) All of the Mentioned
d
2. One approach to standardization storing of data ?
a) MIS
b) Structured programming
c) CODASYL specification
d) None of the Mentioned
c
3. The language used application programs to request data from the DBMS is referred to as the
a) DML
b) DDL
c) Query language
d) All of the Mentioned
a
4. Report generators are used to
a) Store data input by a user
b) Retrieve information from files
c) Answer queries
d) Retrieve information from files and Answer queries
d
5. The management information system (MIS) structure with one main computer system is called a
a) Hierarchical MIS structure
b) Distributed MIS structure
c) Centralized MIS structure
d) Decentralized MIS structure
c
6. Which of the following is not true of the traditional approach to information processing
a) There is common sharing of data among the various applications
b) It is file oriented
c) Programs are dependent on the file
d) All of the Mentioned
a
7. Choose the RDBMS which supports full fledged client server application development
a) dBase V
b) Oracle 7.1
c) FoxPro 2.1
d) Ingress
b
8. Which of the following situation requires the use of ID-dependent entities ?
a) Association relationships only
b) Multivalued attributes only
c) Instance relationships only
d) All of the Mentioned
d
9. Which of the following statements concerning business rules is true?
a) It should be complex.
b) It should not be convertible to computer code.
c) It may include restrictions.
d) All of the Mentioned
c
10. In order to use a record management system
a) you need to understand the low level details of how information is stored
b) you need to understand the model the record management system uses
c) you need to understand  both information storage and the model of record management system
d) None of the Mentioned
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Oracle Database.
To practice all areas of Oracle Database, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Oracle Database Questions and Answers – Installing Oracle Database 11g and Creating a Database» Next - Oracle Database Questions and Answers – The Atomic Data Models and Business Models 
