1. What is the water flow direction in the runner in a Francis turbine?
a) Axial and then tangential
b) Tangential and then axial
c) Radial and then axial
d) Axial and then radial
c
2. Which of the following is true in case of flow of water before it enters the runner of a Francis Turbine?
a) Available head is entirely converted to velocity head
b) Available head is entire converted to pressure head
c) Available head is neither converted to pressure head nor velocity head
d) Available head is partly converted to pressure head and partly to velocity head
d
3. Why does the cross sectional area of the Spiral casing gradually decrease along the circumference of the Francis turbine from the entrance to the tip?
a) To ensure constant velocity of water during runner entry
b) To prevent loss of efficiency of the turbine due to impulsive forces caused by extra area
c) To prevent leakage from the turbine
d) To reduce material costs in order to make the turbine more economical
a
4. Which of the following profiles are used for guide vanes to ensure smooth flow without separation?
a) Rectangular
b) Bent Rectangular
c) Elliptical
d) Aerofoil
d
5. In which of the following type of runners the velocity of whirl at inlet is greater than the blade velocity?
a) Such a case is practically impossible
b) Slow Runner
c) Medium Runner
d) Fast Runner
b
6. Which of the following runner types will have the highest vane angle at inlet (β1 value)?
a) Slow Runner
b) Medium Runner
c) Fast Runner
d) Vane angle is defined only for Kaplan Turbines and not Francis turbines
c
7. In case of a Medium runner, tan (α1) CANNOT be given by (α1 = Guide vane angle at inlet)?
a) Vf1 / Vw1
b) Vr1 / Vw1
c) Vr1 / u1
d) Vw1 / u1
d
8. In the velocity diagrams for Francis turbine, which of the following velocity directions is along the blade curvature?
a) Vr1
b) Vw1
c) V1
d) u1
a
9. In the figure shown below,which of the following angles replace the question mark?
a) Guide vane angle at inlet
b) Blade angle at inlet
c) Vane angle at inlet
d) Blade angle at outlet
a
10. In the figure shown below, which of the following type of runners has the blade curvature as shown in the above figure (The arrow denotes direction of blade motion)?
a) Information insufficient to determine
b) Slow Runner
c) Medium Runner
d) Fast Runner
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Hydraulic Machines.
To practice all areas of Hydraulic Machines, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Hydraulic Machines Questions and Answers – Outward Radial Flow Reaction Turbines – 2» Next - Hydraulic Machines Questions and Answers – Workdone by Francis Turbine 
