1. Who developed ecological pyramids for the first time?
a) Charles Newton
b) Charles Elton
c) Charles Babbage
d) Charles Darwin
b
2. Where we can find the inverted pyramids of biomass?
a) Terrestrial ecosystem
b) Aquatic ecosystem
c) Grassland ecosystem
d) Desert ecosystem
b
3. Which of the following shows the numbers of the producers, herbivores and the carnivores at their successive trophic levels?
a) Food web
b) Food chain
c) Pyramid of biomass
d) Pyramid of numbers
d
4. How can we indicate the accurate energy passed at each trophic level?
a) By the help of pyramid of number
b) By the help of pyramid of biomass
c) By the help of pyramid of energy
d) By the help of pyramid of food web
b
5. Which of the following statement is true for pyramid of biomass?
a) The biomass in each trophic level is always more than the below trophic level
b) The biomass in each trophic level is always less than the below trophic level
c) The biomass in each trophic level is entirely different compared to below one
d) Trophic level don’t pass energy
b
6. Pyramid of energy shows the relationship between energy and trophic level.
a) True
b) False
a
7. What is the significance of the shape of the pyramid of energy?
a) It shows decrease in energy
b) It shows increase in energy
c) It shows the direction of energy flow
d) It shows the trophic levels
a
8. Why are the trophic levels is in the shape of pyramid?
a) Due to loss of energy between the trophic level
b) Due to good looking
c) Due to increase of energy between the trophic level
d) Due to stable energy between the trophic level
a
9. Which pyramid is always upright apart from tree ecosystem?
a) Pyramid of Number
b) Pyramid of Biomass
c) Pyramid of Energy
d) Pyramid of Force
a
10. What is the exception to the upright pyramid of biomass?
a) Temperate forests
b) Deserts
c) Aquatic ecosystems
d) Grassland ecosystems
c
11. In an energy pyramid, which way does energy transfer occur?
a) From both top to bottom and bottom to top of pyramid
b) From middle of pyramid
c) From top to the bottom of pyramid
d) From bottom to the top of pyramid
d
12. Which of the following ecological pyramids is the most fundamental?
a) Pyramid of energy
b) Pyramid of numbers
c) Pyramid of biomass
d) Pyramid of force
a
13. How many types of ecological pyramids are there?
a) One
b) Two
c) Three
d) Four
c
14. The pyramid of biomass is upright in aquatic ecosystem.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy & Environment Management.
To practice all areas of Energy & Environment Management, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy  Management Questions and Answers – Food Webs» Next - Energy Management Questions and Answers – Forest Ecosystems 
