1. Based on what the Kyoto Protocol set emission reduction targets for the group of greenhouse gases?
a) Hydrogen equivalents
b) Carbon dioxide equivalents
c) Oxygen equivalents
d) Nitrogen equivalents
b
2. Under how many agreements fluorochemicals are regulated?
a) One
b) Two
c) Three
d) Four
b
3. With minor exception, which of the following have been phased out completely globally?
a) Carbon dioxide
b) Carbon monoxide
c) Chlorofluorocarbons
d) Nitrogen dioxide
c
4. For what production and consumption phase out schedules the Montreal Protocol has established?
a) Greenhouse emitting gases
b) Global warming emitting gases
c) Ozone layer depleting substances
d) Water level increasing substances
c
5. How can be determined carbon dioxide equivalents?
a) By multiplying the quantity of the gas by its global warming potential
b) By multiplying the quantity of the gas by its pressure
c) By multiplying the quantity of the water by its global warming potential
d) By multiplying the quantity of the gas by its global cooling potential
a
6. The Montreal Protocol is less known for its role in climate protection.
a) True
b) False
a
7. When did the Kyoto Protocol entered into force?
a) 1997
b) 2000
c) 2005
d) 2009
c
8. When is the first commitment period for the Kyoto Protocol expired?
a) 2007
b) 2010
c) 2012
d) 2015
c
9. When did the Montreal Protocol entered into force?
a) 1984
b) 1986
c) 1989
d) 1994
c
10. What are the substances present in the ozone layer depleting substances controlled by the Montreal Protocol?
a) Either chlorine or bromine
b) Either carbon or nitrogen
c) Either chlorine or carbon
d) Either carbon or bromine
d
11. Why hydrofluorocarbons are no harm to the ozone layer?
a) Because they contain chlorine
b) Because they do not contain chlorine
c) Because they contain carbon
d) Because they contain nitrogen
b
12. Which Amendment was agreed to phase down HFCs under the Montreal Protocol?
a) Paris Amendment
b) New York Amendment
c) Delhi Amendment
d) Kigali Amendment
d
13. Which one of the following is the objective of Kyoto Protocol?
a) Stabilization and reconstruction of greenhouse gases
b) Protecting the ozone layer from depletion
c) Reducing the CFCs and HFCs usage
d) Increasing the greenhouse gases
a
14. The Montreal Protocol is the successful climate agreement.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy & Environment Management.
To practice all areas of Energy & Environment Management, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy and Environment Management Questions and Answers – Environmental Ethics : Issues and Possible Solutions» Next - Environment Management Questions and Answers – Acid Rain 
