1. In terms of the number of threatened mammals, what is India’s rank in the world?
a) First
b) Second
c) Third
d) Fourth
d
2. Which is the only surviving member used to be considered of an amphibian family called the Nasikabatrachidae until 2006?
a) Indian yellow frog
b) Indian white frog
c) Indian green frog
d) Indian purple frog
d
3. Which one of the following endemic species of tarantula found only in a small area in India?
a) Gooty tarantula
b) Cobalt blue tarantula
c) Pink toe tarantula
d) Chilean rose tarantula
a
4. In which part of India we can found fan-throated lizard?
a) Northern India
b) Western India
c) Southern India
d) Eastern India
c
5. Which is the only representative of artiodactyls mammals Porcula?
a) Pygmy hog
b) Red river hog
c) Giant forest hog
d) Bearded hog
a
6. There is no difference between endangered and endemic species.
a) True
b) False
b
7. In which tiger reserve we can find more number of brown palm civet animals?
a) Periyar tiger reserve
b) Sunderban tiger reserve
c) Jim Corbett tiger reserve
d) Kalakkad Mundanthurai tiger reserve
d
8. Which of the following was listed as one of the vulnerable species by the International Union for Conservation of Nature?
a) Elephants
b) The Greater One-Horned Rhinoceros
c) Pink-headed duck
d) Sumatran Rhinoceros
b
9. Which is the state animal of Tamil Nadu which is also one of the most endangered species in India?
a) Blackbuck
b) Indian elephant
c) Nilgiri tahr
d) Indian giant squirrel
c
10. Which one of the following is the national animal for two countries and also the endangered species of India?
a) Fennec fox
b) Baird’s tapir
c) Bengal tiger
d) Komodo dragon
c
11. Which state in India is the home to a large population of one of the endangered species in India Asiatic Lion?
a) Karnataka
b) West Bengal
c) Rajasthan
d) Gujarat
d
12. Who discovered a critically endangered species of tarantula Rameshwaram parachute spider?
a) James Scottish
b) Andrew Smith
c) Nicholas Anderson
d) Leonardo Thomson
b
13. Blackbuck is one of the endangered species found in India.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy & Environment Management.
To practice all areas of Energy and Environment Management for Entrance exams, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy and Environment Management Questions and Answers – Convention on Biological Diversity, India as a Mega Diversity Nation» Next - Energy and Environment Management Questions and Answers – Biogeographic Classification of India 
