1. What is called for a discrete group of organisms of the same kind?
a) Genes
b) Community
c) Species
d) Column
c
2. Approximately, how many species are assigned with scientific names?
a) Around 1 million
b) Around 1.5 million
c) Around 2 million
d) Around 2.5 million
b
3. What is the significance of spices diversity?
a) Species interacts with its environment and thus perform certain functions
b) Species minimize interaction with its environment and thus perform certain functions
c) Species never interacts with environment
d) Though species interacts with the environment it do no perform any functions
a
4. How do human activities affect species diversity?
a) Due to over-exploitation of humans
b) Due to conserving the forests
c) Due to a decline in population growth in humans
d) Due to decrease in the pollution causing by industries
a
5. How many components are there in species diversity?
a) One
b) Two
c) Three
d) Four
c
6. We cannot calculate species diversity.
a) True
b) False
b
7. How will increasing species diversity affect ecosystem?
a) It increase the efficiency and productivity of an ecosystem
b) It increase only the efficiency and not productivity of an ecosystem
c) It do not increase the efficiency and productivity of an ecosystem
d) It only increase the productivity of an ecosystem
a
8. How many types of species are there?
a) One
b) Two
c) Three
d) Four
c
9. What is called for the evolutionary process by which new biological species arise?
a) Speciation
b) Condensation
c) Evaporation
d) Admiration
a
10. Which is the largest scale of biodiversity?
a) Species diversity
b) Genetic diversity
c) Cell diversity
d) Ecological diversity
d
11. Which one of the following diversity boosts the availability of oxygen?
a) Species diversity
b) Ecosystem diversity
c) Genetic diversity
d) Cell diversity
b
12. Which of the following is an example of ecosystem diversity?
a) Earth
b) Sun
c) River
d) Glass
c
13. Apart from reduction of gene flow, what is the one more reason for speciation?
a) Morphological insulation
b) Geographical isolation
c) Area distribution
d) Mutation
b
14. Forests are the only example of Ecosystem diversity.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy & Environment Management.
To practice all areas of Energy & Environment Management, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy and Environment Management Questions and Answers – Genetic Diversity» Next - Energy and Environment Management Questions and Answers – Value of Biodiversity & Bio-piracy 
