1. How can we achieve the prevention of environmental degradation?
a) By relying on the government to do all the jobs
b) By killing all animals in the forest
c) By creating public awareness among people about the importance of environment
d) By causing more and more pollution
c
2. In which of the following way we can create awareness among people about environment efficiently?
a) By the help of mass media shows the importance of environment
b) By spreading through mouths
c) By forcefully insisting people to protecting environment
d) By making treaties with other countries
a
3. Which one of the following is the best way to protect environment by individuals?
a) By simply talking about environment
b) By killing organisms and cutting trees
c) By joining NGOs and involve themselves in environmental protection works
d) By simply sitting in a home
c
4. What is the best way to educate school kids about the environment?
a) Teaching theory about environment in classes
b) Showing pictures and videos of environment in projector screen
c) Taking kids to national parks or sanctuaries
d) Taking kids to amusement parks
c
5. When we will celebrate World Forestry Day?
a) 21 March
b) 22 April
c) 05 June
d) 11 July
a
Join [email protected]
6. Individuals can play a major role in environment management.
a) True
b) False
a
7. In India when we will celebrate Wildlife Week?
a) Between April 1 and 8
b) Between July 1 and 8
c) Between August 1 and 8
d) Between October 1 and 8
d
8. When did the Bombay Natural History Society started?
a) 1883
b) 1894
c) 1903
d) 1916
a
9. Which is the India’s oldest conservation research based NGO?
a) Botanical Survey of India
b) Bombay Natural History Society
c) Centre for Environmental Education
d) Madras Crocodile Bank Trust
b
10. Which is the first crocodile conservation breeding centre in Asia?
a) Madras Crocodile Bank Trust
b) Bombay Crocodile Bank Trust
c) Kolkata Crocodile Bank Trust
d) Mangalore Crocodile Bank Trust
a
11. Where we can see State Department of Environment?
a) State where there is no danger for environment
b) State where there is danger for environment
c) State where there is no adequate environment
d) In all States of India
d
12. Where is the head quarter of Wildlife Institute of India located?
a) New Delhi
b) Mysore
c) Dehradun
d) Bhopal
c
13. When did the Zoological Survey of India established?
a) 1900
b) 1909
c) 1916
d) 1920
c
14. Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (SACON) founded by Salim Ali.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy & Environment Management.
To practice Energy and Environment Management Question Bank, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy and Environment Management Questions and Answers – Nuclear Hazards and Accidents» Next - Energy and Environment Management Questions and Answers – International Environmental Centers 
