1. After which incident family planning programs are initiated in most countries?
a) After industrial revolution
b) After World War 2
c) After British invasion to India
d) After the United States independence
b
2. Which one of the following is the main target of family welfare programs?
a) Couples in the fertile age
b) Children below 12 years
c) Women after fertile age
d) Male after fertile age
a
3. Which organization works as an administrative unit for implementation of Family Welfare Programme in all districts of the State and functioning at State Head quarter?
a) The District Family Welfare Bureau
b) The National Family Welfare Bureau
c) The State Family Welfare Bureau
d) The International Family Welfare Bureau
c
4. Which one of the following is the activity of the Family Welfare Programme?
a) Malnutrition programme
b) Child marriage
c) IUD programme
d) One child one nation policy
c
5. What is the main aim of Janani Suraksha Yojana which is the programme by the Family Welfare programme?
a) To provide pensions to widow women
b) To provide shelters to poor people
c) To encourage people to use safe sexual methods
d) Reducing maternal and neonatal mortality
d
6. There are a number of problems in the adolescent period for females.
a) True
b) False
a
7. When did Janani Suraksha Yojana launched?
a) 2000
b) 2005
c) 2010
d) 2015
b
8. Which is the first country to initiate a Family Planning program in the world?
a) Brazil
b) Pakistan
c) India
d) France
c
9. When the Family Planning Insurance Scheme was introduced?
a) 2003
b) 2005
c) 2007
d) 2009
b
10. Which is the first State in India to recognize the basic relevance of family planning to nation planning?
a) Kerala
b) Goa
c) Karnataka
d) Tamil Nadu
d
11. Why is family planning important?
a) For birth control issues
b) For having unwanted pregnancies
c) For having child every year
d) To get pregnant before the age of twenty
a
12. In a Hormonal method of family planning, maximum how many hormones are included?
a) One
b) Two
c) Three
d) Four
b
13. What is Natural Family Planning?
a) Not having sexual intercourse on the particular days when women is fertile
b) Not having sexual intercourse in any time
c) Having sexual intercourse irrespective of any period
d) Having sexual intercourse with the help of contraceptives
a
14. There are different types of family planning.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy & Environment Management.
To practice all areas of Energy & Environment Management, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environment Management Questions and Answers – Environment and Human Health» Next - Energy and Environment Management Questions and Answers – Genetic Diversity 
