1. Which of the following is the main reason for not providing employment to the growing population?
a) Majority of the population own their business
b) Majority of the population have plenty of amounts with them
c) Majority of the population is poor
d) Majority of the population is illiterate
d
2. Where we can find over strained infrastructure due to population growth?
a) In rural areas
b) In forest areas
c) In desert areas
d) In urban areas
d
3. Which one of the following is a result of overpopulation?
a) Adequate storage of natural resources
b) Pressure on land and other renewable resources
c) Increasing the amount of forest
d) Decrease the shortage of water
b
4. Which one of the following is the main reason for decrease in the per capita income?
a) Due to decrease in gross national product
b) Due to decrease in population growth
c) Due to increase in population growth
d) Due to equitable distribution of income
c
5. According to 2011 census, what is the annual exponential growth rate in India?
a) 1.34%
b) 1.45%
c) 1.64%
d) 1.75%
c
6. Over population growth causing disproportionate gender composition.
a) True
b) False
a
7. What is the reason for poor standard of living and malnutrition in India?
a) Due to environmental conditions
b) Due to over population
c) Due to absence of natural resources
d) Due to the poor economy of India
b
8. Why it is impossible to provide employment to all the unemployed in India?
a) Due to lack of economy
b) Due to over population growth
c) Due to the absence of natural resources
d) Due to lack of interest among youths
b
9. What is the need to control the population growth in India?
a) To improve the standard of living among existing people
b) To utilize all the natural resources among the existing people
c) To participate in war among neighboring nations
d) To increase the mortality rate in India
a
10. Which one of the following is the cause for overpopulation in India?
a) Birth rate is lower than the death rate
b) Birth rate is higher than the death rate
c) There is no death happening
d) Due to over pollution
b
11. Which one of the following is the step to control population growth in India?
a) Killing all newborn babies
b) Not providing medical assistance to people
c) Lowering infant mortality rate
d) Early marriage to girls
c
12. What is India’s global rank in population?
a) First
b) Second
c) Third
d) Fourth
b
13. Which one of the following can be a solution to overpopulation?
a) Neglecting family planning
b) Knowledge of sex education
c) Providing more facilities to the family consisting if more kids
d) Improper medical facilities
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy & Environment Management.
To practice all areas of Energy & Environment Management, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy and Environment Management Questions and Answers – International Environmental Centers» Next - Energy and Environment Management Questions and Answers – Human Rights 
