1. What is the full form of NPPA?
a) National Policy on Population Abatement
b) National Policy on Pollution Abatement
c) National Policy on Population Absorption
d) National Policy on Population Arise
b
2. Which is the most recent pronouncement of the government’s commitment to improving environmental conditions?
a) National Environmental Policy
b) National Water Policy
c) Environment Act
d) Air Policy
a
3. What is Environmental Compliance?
a) Conforming to government laws
b) Conforming to constitutional laws
c) Conforming to environmental laws
d) Conforming to tribal laws
c
4. What is the full form of EDMS?
a) Environmental Data Management Systems
b) Environmental Data Management Security
c) Environmental Data Management Sustainability
d) Environmental Data Management Syndrome
a
5. How many laws relating to environmental protection in the legal framework are there?
a) Over one hundred
b) Over two hundred
c) Over three hundred
d) Over four hundred
b
6. One of the main objectives of the Central Pollution Control Board is to coordinate the activities of State Pollution Control Boards and resolve the disputes among them.
a) True
b) False
a
7. Which is the central government nodal agency responsible for planning, promotion and coordination of all environmental activities?
a) The Central Pollution Control Boards
b) Municipal Corporation
c) State Pollution Control Boards
d) Ministry of Environment and Forests
d
8. Which of the following helped in the saving of trees?
a) Pouring of water
b) Developing of chemical manuals
c) Use of modern agriculture
d) Development of iron and steel
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy & Environment Management.
To practice all areas of Energy and Environment Management for Experienced people, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy and Environment Management Questions and Answers – Major International Environmental Protocols» Next - Energy and Environment Management Questions and Answers – Major Environmental Problems Associated with Selected Industry Sector 
