1. Into how many types of biodiversity are classified?
a) One
b) Two
c) Three
d) Four
c
2. What is called for a species with different genetic characteristics?
a) Up-species
b) Sub-species
c) Down-species
d) By-species
b
3. Which are the basic units of hereditary information transmitter from one generation to other?
a) Cells
b) Bones
c) Bloods
d) Genes
d
4. Rice variety is an example for which of the following biodiversity?
a) Genetic diversity
b) Species diversity
c) Ecosystem diversity
d) Community diversity
a
5. Which foundation in 2007 found that genetic diversity and biodiversity are dependent upon each other?
a) National Geographical Foundation
b) National Animal Foundation
c) National Ecosystem foundation
d) National Science Foundation
d
6. Genetic diversity serves as a way for populations to adapt to changing environments.
a) True
b) False
a
7. What happens if there is a change in genetic diversity?
a) It leads to the loss of biological diversity
b) It leads to the loss of only human species
c) It leads to the pollution
d) It leads to more population
a
8. In how many fold we can divide the importance of genetic diversity?
a) One
b) Two
c) Three
d) Four
b
9. Why genetic diversity plays an important role in the survival and adaptability of a species?
a) Ability of the population to adapt to the changing environment
b) Any population must remain same irrespective of the outer change in the environment
c) Environment remains same even if the population changes
d) Population inability to adapt to the changing environment
a
10. How genetic diversity helps in agriculture?
a) It makes crops to monocultures
b) It avoids monocultures of crops
c) It provides less yield
d) It provides diseases to crops
b
11. When did the Commission on Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture established?
a) 2007
b) 2008
c) 2009
d) 2010
a
12. If there is a threatened species in forest, what may be the reason for that?
a) Mutation
b) Diseases
c) Low genetic diversity
d) High genetic diversity
c
13. Which one of the following is a measure of genetic diversity?
a) Population
b) Environmental condition
c) Pollution
d) Nucleotide diversity
d
14. Genetic diversity is not essential for a species to evolve.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy & Environment Management.
To practice all areas of Energy & Environment Management, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Energy and Environment Management Questions and Answers – Family Welfare Programs» Next - Energy and Environment Management Questions and Answers – Species and Ecosystem Diversity 
