1. What is called when an industry removes water from a source and then returns the heated water to its source?
a) Water pollution
b) Soil pollution
c) Air pollution
d) Thermal pollution
d
2. Which one of the following can cause thermal pollution?
a) Residential houses
b) Power plants
c) Death of marine organisms
d) Oil spill
b
3. What is the effect of warmer temperature to the fishes?
a) Increase the metabolism
b) Decrease the metabolism
c) Stabilize the metabolism
d) Increase the solubility of oxygen
a
4. What is the disadvantage of control measures of thermal pollution by passing the heated water?
a) Water is lost due to leakage
b) Water is lost due to absorption
c) Water is lost due to dilution
d) Water is lost due to evaporation
d
5. Which one of the following cause thermal pollution?
a) Release of cold water
b) Organic manures
c) Purified water
d) More number of trees
a
Join [email protected]
6. Growing industrial activities is one of the reasons for thermal pollution.
a) True
b) False
a
7. How does soil erosion cause thermal pollution?
a) By making natural water bodies to hold in its normal level
b) By polluting the water bodies
c) By avoiding sunlight to fall on the water bodies
d) By making natural water bodies to rise beyond their normal level
d
8. What is a thermal shock?
a) Sudden raises of temperature to abnormal level
b) Sudden cooling of temperature to abnormal level
c) Temperature don’t change
d) Temperature change only due to environmental factors
a
9. What is the main effect of thermal pollution to the oxygen solubility in water bodies?
a) They increase the solubility of oxygen in water bodies
b) They maintain the solubility of oxygen in water bodies
c) They reduce the solubility of oxygen in water bodies
d) They don’t cause any affect in solubility of oxygen to the water bodies
c
10. Which of the following is the main reason for thermal pollution?
a) Bio fuels
b) Organic farming
c) Eco friendly vehicles
d) Power plants
d
11. How does an artificial lake help in solving thermal pollution?
a) It stores heated water
b) It gives a good aesthetic view
c) It helps to breed fishes
d) It is used during the summer season where water scarcity cause
a
12. What is called for the useless heat from hot water recycled by industries?
a) Cooling towers
b) Recycling
c) Heat pump
d) Co-generation
d
13. Generally how many types of cooling towers are there?
a) One
b) Two
c) Three
d) Four
b
14. Runoff from paved surfaces can cause thermal pollution.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy & Environment Management.
To practice all areas of Energy & Environment Management, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environment Management Questions and Answers – Legal Acts of Noise Pollution» Next - Environment Management Questions and Answers – Hazardous Waste 
