1. How many fundamental ways in which noise can b controlled?
a) One
b) Two
c) Three
d) Four
d
2. Which is the best way to control noise pollution among the four fundamental ways?
a) Reduce noise at the source
b) Block the path of noise
c) Increase the path length
d) Protect the recipient
a
3. How can we reduce the noise in industries?
a) By not using the heavy machinery
b) By using rigid sealed enclosures
c) By using more robotics
d) By reduce the production of the industries
b
4. What is the main source of vehicular noise?
a) High speed
b) Movement of the vehicle’s tyres on the pavement
c) Low pressure
d) Fuel engine
b
5. Which of the following is a way to reduce the traffic noise in the highway?
a) Constructing the vertical barriers
b) Increase the speed of the vehicles
c) Using old engine vehicles
d) Horning in unnecessary time
a
Join [email protected]
6. Noise levels at construction sites can be controlled using proper construction planning and scheduling techniques.
a) True
b) False
a
7. What is the best way to reduce the noise pollution around houses?
a) Throwing all noisy machines
b) Built a noise resistant shield across the house
c) Use of ear buds to reduce the noise
d) Planting trees around houses
d
8. In order to reduce the roadside noise which of the following product Australian Government designed?
a) Sound tube
b) Ear buds
c) Ear repellent
d) Noise repellent
a
9. What is the best way to reduce aircraft noise?
a) By using shield around aircraft
b) By using quieter jet engines
c) By using heavy propellants
d) By using white paint
b
10. What is used during sleep in order to avoid noise pollution?
a) Mask
b) Earplugs
c) Cotton shirts
d) Jackets
b
11. How does a car in good condition can cause less pollution?
a) It goes in high speed
b) It requires less fuel
c) It gives safety
d) It avoids muffler chugging down the streets
d
12. Which of the following way reduce noise pollution?
a) Turn on the loud devices
b) Turn on white noise
c) Using old engines vehicles
d) Bursting crackers
b
13. Which of the following steps can take by government in order to reduce the noise pollution?
a) Enforcement of all noise laws
b) Constructing more roads
c) Increasing the number of vehicles
d) Not to create awareness about the noise pollution
a
14. Drown out of noise with pleasant sounds can reduce noise pollution.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy & Environment Management.
To practice all areas of Environment Management Assessment Questions, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environment Management Questions and Answers – Noise Pollution and its Effects» Next - Environment Management Questions and Answers – Legal Acts of Noise Pollution 
