1. Which of the following organisms found in human waste that cause water pollution?
a) Coliform bacteria
b) Viruses
c) Protozoa
d) Parasitic worms
a
2. What is oxygen depleting waste?
a) Organic waste that can be decomposed by aerobic bacteria
b) Organic waste that can be decomposed by anaerobic bacteria
c) Organic waste that can be decomposed by aerobic viruses
d) Organic waste that can be decomposed by anaerobic viruses
a
3. What is the indicator of pollution in water?
a) Amount of oxygen
b) Amount of hydrogen
c) Amount of BOD
d) Amount of nitrogen
c
4. Why certain parts of water bodies contain more number of algae?
a) Due to favorable environment
b) Due to run-off excess fertilizers
c) Due to lack of fertilizers
d) Due to water pollution
b
5. What are water soluble inorganic chemicals?
a) Compounds of pure metals
b) Compounds of non-metals
c) Compounds of synthetic metals
d) Compounds of toxic metals
d
6. There is only one class of common water pollutants.
a) True
b) False
b
7. Who sediment of suspended matter occurs?
a) When soil is eroded from the air
b) When soil is eroded from the land
c) When soil is eroded from the water
d) When soil is eroded from the rock
b
8. What is a sediment of suspended matter?
a) Insoluble particles of soil and other solids
b) Soluble particles of soil and other solids
c) Insoluble particles of water
d) Soluble particles of water
a
9. Where we can find water soluble radioactive isotopes?
a) In radioactive reactor
b) In radioactive coolant
c) In radioactive shield
d) In radioactive waste
d
10. What is the main reason for thermal pollution?
a) Increase in the temperature of the ecosystem
b) Increase in the chemical contains in water
c) Hot water released by power plants and industries
d) Pollution causing by vehicles
c
11. Why thermal pollution causing the release of hot water by power plants is dangerous?
a) They increase the solubility of oxygen
b) They decrease the solubility of oxygen
c) They don’t dissolve oxygen
d) They dissolve nitrogen
b
12. How to minimize the pollution of water pollution due organic chemicals that release to water bodies?
a) To remove all the aquatic organisms from the water
b) To purify water manually after released to the water bodies
c) Purify the water before enter the water directly from industries
d) Leave the water bodies without using it
c
13. The birds lay eggs with shells that are much thinner than normal is an example of_______________
a) Bioaccumulation
b) Mutation
c) DNA sequence
d) Mal nutrients
a
14. Leakage of oil from underground tanks can pollute groundwater.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy & Environment Management.
To practice all areas of Energy & Environment Management, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environment Management Questions and Answers – Effects and Control Measures of Air Pollution» Next - Environment Management Questions and Answers – Control Measures of Water Pollution 
