1. How agricultural management helps in the control of water pollution?
a) By giving an idea about the use of land management
b) By increase the water intake
c) By using poor soil which consumes less water
d) By encouraging farmers to use more chemicals
a
2. How soil resistance can increase against erosion?
a) By maintaining the water inflow
b) By maintaining the physical structure of soil
c) By maintaining the environmental conditions
d) By increasing the manure given to the plants
b
3. Why ground water monitoring is important in control of water pollution?
a) To provide more quantity of water
b) To increase the chemical contains in the water
c) To provide good quality of water
d) To reduce the amount of water supplying from ground water
c
4. How can we reduce the effluent volume of water to maintain its pollution level?
a) Increase the upstream flow by low flow augmentation
b) Decrease the upstream flow by low flow augmentation
c) Increase the upstream flow by high flow augmentation
d) Decrease the upstream flow by high flow augmentation
a
5. In order to control the water pollution of pathogenic bacteria, viruses and parasites, how many categories are there?
a) One
b) Two
c) Three
d) Four
c
6. Redesign of synthetic detergents to reduce foaming can minimize water pollution in little quantity.
a) True
b) False
a
7. How are aquatic weeds used in controlling water pollution?
a) They use as a decorative substances
b) They use as biological filters
c) They use as chemicals
d) They used to upgrade wastewater treatment
d
8. What is the pH range of effluent after treatment?
a) Between 4.4 and 5.5
b) Between 4.8 and 6.1
c) Between 6.8 and 7.8
d) Between 7.8 and 8.3
c
9. Why controlled use of water hyacinth is important in controlling of water pollution?
a) To decrease the BOD level
b) To increase the BOD level
c) To completely vanish the BOD level
d) To maintain the BOD level
b
10. When did water cess act come into force?
a) 1973
b) 1975
c) 1977
d) 1980
c
11. Which of the following is not a way to minimize the disposal of toxic wastes into the water?
a) To create awareness about the pollution happening on water for people
b) To minimize the use of pesticides and chemicals into the agricultural fields
c) Recycle of plastic materials
d) Encouraging the disposals of electronic waste into the water bodies
d
12. Why the flowing water of the river cannot be cleaned easily by natural process?
a) Because a large number of external substances are discharged into the water
b) Because external climatic conditions are not favorable to clean the water
c) The following water is already cleaned before flowing itself
d) Because of lack of space to clean the water
a
13. Water that has been exposed to a substance other than water I called as_____________
a) Water purification
b) Water strength
c) Water contamination
d) Water desolation
c
14. Monitor used of motor oil can reduce water pollution.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy & Environment Management.
To practice all areas of Environment Management for Quizzes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environment Management Questions and Answers – Causes of Water Pollution» Next - Environment Management Questions and Answers – The State of India’s Rivers 
