1. Which is the most input of waste causing marine pollution?
a) Pesticides
b) Pipes directly discharge waste into the sea
c) Death of aquatic organisms
d) Climatic conditions
b
2. Why ship accidents cause marine pollution?
a) Because if the ship carrying passengers to collapse it results in the death of many people
b) Because ship is very huge in its size
c) Dredged material which carries heavy metals cause marine pollution
d) Ship materials stuck inside the marine organisms
c
3. Which of the following is the greatest volume of waste discharge to water?
a) Spillage from oil pipelines
b) Sewage
c) Nuclear waste
d) Spillage from tankers
b
4. When does the rate of aerobic oxidation reduced in the sewage that is reduced to the water?
a) When oxygen concentration falls below 1.5 mg/l
b) When oxygen concentration falls below 2.5 mg/l
c) When oxygen concentration falls below 3.5 mg/l
d) When oxygen concentration falls below 4.5 mg/l
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
5. Which of the following way is used to reduce the pollution load on marine water?
a) Manual cleaning of pollutants
b) Damping the pollutants during winter
c) Introducing sewage treatment plants
d) Ban the license of industries which are near to the sea
c
6. The Deepwater Horizon oil spill considered amongst the largest oil spills in history.
a) True
b) False
a
7. What is the reason that oil pollution attracts the greatest attention?
a) Because of the volume
b) Because of the density
c) Because of the mass
d) Because of the visibility
d
8. The natural process of emulsification of oil in water can be accelerated through the use of chemical dispersants.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy & Environment Management.
To practice all areas of Energy & Environment Management, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environment Management Questions and Answers – Soil and its Pollution» Next - Environment Management Questions and Answers – Effects and Control Measures of Marine Pollution 
