1. What is the first step in primary sewage treatment plants?
a) Fine screening
b) Course screening
c) Chlorination
d) Primary settling tank
b
2. What is called for the removal of sand, gravel in the primary treatment of sewage treatment plant?
a) Course screening
b) Fine screening
c) Grit removal
d) Chlorination
c
3. What is called for the place where lighter, organic material settles in the primary treatment of sewage plant?
a) Primary settling tank
b) Secondary settling tank
c) Grit chamber
d) Coursing chamber
c
4. Where can we find rotating arm sprays in sewage treatment?
a) Primary treatment
b) Secondary treatment of trickling filter
c) Secondary treatment of activated sludge process
d) Secondary process of oxidation pool
b
5. In which secondary treatment of sewage treatment sludge is broken down in an anaerobic digester?
a) Oxidation pool
b) Activated sludge process
c) Trickling filter
d) Bed filter
b
6. In sewage treatment of oxidation pond we can see the water up to 2 meters deep.
a) True
b) False
a
7. In which of the following treatment of sewage plant we can find disinfection as a step?
a) Secondary process of oxidation pool
b) Secondary treatment of trickling filter
c) Primary treatment
d) Advanced sewage treatment
d
8. How many percentage of BOD removes in primary treatment?
a) 15%
b) 25%
c) 35%
d) 45%
c
9. What is the main objective of secondary treatment of sewage plants?
a) To remove the suspended particles
b) To remove the contaminants
c) To remove the BOD
d) To remove the organic material
c
10. How many common approaches are used in secondary treatment?
a) One
b) Two
c) Three
d) Four
c
11. What is the meaning of ‘Tainting’ related to marine pollution?
a) Unpleasant flavor of seafood
b) Unpleasant flavor of water
c) Unpleasant flavor of soil
d) Unpleasant flavor of air
a
12. When drill cutting dumped on the seabed which toxic is produced?
a) Toxic nitrites
b) Toxic fluorides
c) Toxic sulphides
d) Toxic hydrates
c
13. What happens if liquid oil contaminates a bird’s plumage?
a) Birds bone become week
b) Birds lost its memory
c) Birds digestive system becomes weak
d) Birds lost its water-repellent properties
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy & Environment Management.
To practice MCQs on all areas of Environment Management, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environment Management Questions and Answers – Marine Pollution» Next - Environment Management Questions and Answers – Noise Pollution and its Effects 
