1. What are the three R’s that are used to save the environment which includes forest?
a) Reduce, Reuse, Recycle
b) Reserve, Reduce, Recycle
c) Reuse, Reserve, Reduce
d) Reserve, Reuse, Reduce
a
2. How many National Parks are there in India as of 2015?
a) 88
b) 96
c) 106
d) 179
a
3. How much area is under the forest cover in India?
a) Around 610000 sq km
b) Around 670000 sq km
c) Around 710000 sq km
d) Around 750000 sq km
c
4. Which community of Rajasthan Have religious belief for conservation of forest and wildlife?
a) Haddi
b) Bishnoi
c) Rajput
d) Thakur
b
5. Which one of the following movement was carried out for the conservation of forests and the environment?
a) Forest movement
b) Ganaga Action Plan
c) Tehri Andolan
d) Chipko Andolan
d
6. Forest management has various scopes.
a) True
b) False
a
7. Which of the following is not a principle of Chugach National Forest?
a) The forest service is governed by many existing laws
b) National Forest System lands are managed for multiple uses
c) It provides subsistence uses for rural residents of Alaska
d) It doesn’t collaborate with interested Native Alaskan tribes
d
8. Which country leads in the producing and consuming of forest products?
a) Nepal
b) Kenya
c) India
d) United States
d
9. Which of the following is not the best way to fight a forest fire?
a) Evacuate from the forest surrounding places
b) Not using water as a fire suppression tool
c) Deploy suppressant foam
d) Create a fire line
b
10. What is the full form of JFM with related to Forest Management?
a) Joint Forest Management
b) Junior Forest Management
c) Jury Forest Management
d) Jharkhand Forest Management
a
11. What is called for the practice of regulating forest resources to meet the needs of society and industry while preserving the forest’s health?
a) Environmental protection
b) Sustainable Forest Management
c) Forest policy framework
d) Unsustainable Forest Management
b
12. Which one of the following is a branch of forestry?
a) Protection Forestry
b) Deforestation
c) Forest Management
d) Restricted Forestry
c
13. Which one of the following is not the best way to stop deforestation?
a) Planting trees
b) Not encouraging for recycling the used products
c) Go paperless
d) Eat vegetarian meals as often as possible
b
14. Forest management varies in intensity.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy & Environment Management.
To practice all areas of Energy & Environment Management, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environment Management Questions and Answers – Disaster Management» Next - Environment Management Questions and Answers – Wildlife Conservation in India 
