1. What is called for the pollution that can be traced directly to industrial activity?
a) Soil pollution
b) Water pollution
c) Air pollution
d) Industrial pollution
d
2. Which of the following are the largest contributors to global pollution?
a) Soil pollution
b) Industrial pollution
c) Radioactive pollution
d) Water pollution
b
3. Which of the following pollution majorly responsible for pollution in the United States?
a) Soil pollution
b) Water pollution
c) Air pollution
d) Industrial pollution
d
4. Which of the following is the consequence of industrial pollution?
a) Increase in the water level in seas
b) Releases of the hazardous radiations
c) Increase in the animals in forests
d) Global warming
d
5. How do industrial pollution results in water pollution?
a) Dumping of various waste products from industries
b) Taking water bodies places to built industries
c) Industries which uses all the water from the water bodies and cause scarcity of water
d) Building of purification unit in the industries
a
Join [email protected]
6. Industrial pollution doesn’t contribute to air pollution.
a) True
b) False
b
7. Which one of the following is the prime factor towards soil pollution?
a) Soil erosion
b) Floods
c) Dumping of industrial wastes
d) Using land for irrigation
c
8. Which one of the following industries produced Sulfur dioxide and flu ash as pollutants?
a) Textile industries
b) Cottage industries
c) Thermal industries
d) Coal industries
c
9. Which one of the following is a mechanical means of treating industrial effluents?
a) Oxidation
b) Chlorination
c) Recycling of waste
d) Sedimentation
d
10. Which one of the following is not normally a pollutant?
a) Carbon dioxide
b) Carbon monoxide
c) Sulphur dioxide
d) Hydrocarbons
a
11. Why industries pollute water?
a) Because they use water in large quantities
b) Because they release all the pollutants to water
c) Because industries don’t use water
d) Because water is an universal solvent
b
12. Which one of the following is the cause of industrial pollution?
a) Modern technologies
b) Efficient waste disposal
c) Efficient government policies
d) Unplanned industrial growth
d
13. Which one of the following is the main cause of air pollution?
a) Decrease in the factories
b) Increase in the factories
c) Increase in the seawater level
d) Increase in the modern technologies
b
14. Industries require raw materials to be extracted from the ground such minerals cause soil pollution.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy & Environment Management.
To practice all areas of Energy & Environment Management, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environment Management Questions and Answers – Solid Waste» Next - Environment Management Questions and Answers – Ganga Action Plans(GAP) 
