1. Which one of the following is an important heat trapping gas?
a) Nitrogen
b) Carbon monoxide
c) Carbon dioxide
d) Hydrogen
c
2. How many cubic kilometers of land ice decrease in Antarctica since 2002?
a) 100
b) 400
c) 500
d) 1000
a
3. Which one of the following is the reason for a sea level rise?
a) Depression of sea water
b) Expansion of sea water
c) Due to heavy rainfall
d) Due to low rainfall
b
4. What is the full form of IPCC?
a) Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
b) International Panel on Climate Change
c) Intergovernmental Protocols on Climate Change
d) International Panel on Climate Conservation
a
5. What is the estimation range of the global mean sea level rise by the year 2100?
a) 0-10 cm
b) 4-45 cm
c) 9-88 cm
d) 14-123 cm
c
6. Human society can sustain any kind of climate change.
a) True
b) False
b
7. According to the World Health Organization estimation in 2001, which one of the following is the most vulnerable region for a rise in sea level?
a) Srilanka
b) Andaman and Nicobar
c) Ganges–Brahmaputra delta
d) Kutch
c
8. Which one of the following is a result of climate change?
a) Adequate rainfall
b) Pure air
c) Deficiency of freshwater
d) Less soil pollution
c
9. How food production reduced due to climate change?
a) Due to application of organic manures
b) Due to modern technologies
c) Due  to increase in pests
d) Due to reduced in pollution
c
10. How climate change leads to conflicts in vulnerable regions?
a) By shortage of human resources
b) By shortage of food and water
c) By shortage of land
d) By shortage of chemical manures
b
11. What happens when seasonal transmission of vector species due to climate change?
a) Increase the spread of diseases
b) Decreased the spread of diseases
c)  Vector species itself die
d) Vector species do not spread disease
a
12. Which one of the following can achieve Global Climate Change?
a) World War-3
b) Making unwanted policies
c) Drinking less water than required
d) The training of researchers and health professionals
d
13. In which year the Pacific Ocean led to the most serious death in coral ever known?
a) 1993
b) 1995
c) 1997
d) 2000
c
14. World Health Organization warned that climate change may have a serious affect on human health.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Energy & Environment Management.
To practice tough questions and answers on all areas of Environment Management, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Environment Management Questions and Answers – Global Warming» Next - Environment Management Questions and Answers – Pollution Control Boards and Control Pollution  Acts in India 
