1. What is the nature of the trajectory of rockets in gravity-free, drag-free environment?
a) Two-dimensional, curved path
b) One dimensional, curved path
c) Two-dimensional, straight line path
d) One dimensional, straight line path
d
2. How will propellant mass flow and thrust change with burn duration in a gravity-free, drag-free environment?
a) Mass flow and thrust remains constant
b) Mass flow increases, thrust decreases
c) Mass flow decreases, thrust increases
d) Mass flow decreases, thrust decreases
a
3. Where do we account for residual propellant mass in a rocket engine?
a) Propellant mass
b) Inert mass
c) Payload mass
d) Structural mass
b
4. What is the nature of the effect of the propellant mass fraction on the vehicle velocity?
a) Exponential
b) Logarithmic
c) Linear
d) Parabolic
b
up = ∆u = -c ln(1-ζ).
5. Keeping the system inert mass constant, which of the following changes will not result in flight velocity increment?
a) Use of better propellants
b) A more favorable nozzle area ratio
c) Higher chamber pressure
d) Better nozzle cooling
d
Join [email protected]
6. For given average effective exhaust velocity(c), which of the following values of propellant mass fractions(ζ) gives maximum vehicle velocity (up)?
a) 0.6
b) 0.7
c) 0.8
d) 0.9
d
7. What is the effect of increasing mass ratio (mo/mb, where mo is the initial mass and mb is the burnout mass) on Isp?
a) Increases
b) Decreases
c) No effect
d) Increases only after a limit
:
8. Which of the following will decrease the effective propellant fraction?
a) Higher system inert mass
b) More favorable nozzle area ratio
c) Higher chamber pressure
d) Higher temperature at the inlet of the nozzle
a
9. Which of these is a reasonable value of the mass ratio (Initial mass/inert mass) for single-stage vehicles for gravitation free drag-free space flight?
a) 100
b) 1000
c) 200
d) 20
d
10. Which of these is a reasonable value of the mass ratio (Initial mass/inert mass) for multistage vehicles for gravitation free drag-free space flight?
a) 100
b) 1000
c) 200
d) 20
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Rocket Propulsion.
To practice all areas of Rocket Propulsion Assessment Questions, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Rocket Propulsion Questions and Answers – Nozzle Theory – Variable Thrust» Next - Rocket Propulsion Questions and Answers – Flight Performance – Forces Acting on a Vehicle in the Atmosphere 
