1. Which of the following is not true for an ideal expansion in the nozzle?
a) Adiabatic, reversible expansion
b) Drop in static temperature and pressure
c) Drop in stagnation temperature and pressure
d) Conversion of thermal to kinetic energy
c
2. Which of the following effects are neglected for simple cases of nozzle expansion?
a) Heat exchange
b) Frictional effects
c) Divergence angle
d) Reversibility
d
3. Assertion: The condensed phases (liquid and solid) are assumed to have zero volume.
Reason: Particles or droplets are very small in size.
a) The assertion is correct, but the reason is incorrect
b) Both assertion and reason are incorrect
c) Both are correct and the reason is the correct explanation for the assertion
d) Both are correct but the reason is not the correct explanation for the assertion
c
4. What is the typical value of penalty incurred by assuming a frozen equilibrium rocket performance?
a) 1-4%
b) 0%
c) 12-15%
d) 25-30%
a
5. In which of the following cases is the chemical equilibrium maintained instantaneously, even though the gas composition varies through the nozzle due to temperature and pressure variations along the nozzle?
a) Frozen equilibrium
b) Non-equilibrium
c) Shifting equilibrium
d) Isothermal equilibrium
c
6. In which of the following modes of analysis does the temperature, velocity or pressure at any normal cross-section of an axisymmetric nozzle remain to be the same?
a) One dimensional
b) Two dimensional
c) Three dimensional
d) N-dimensional, where N can be 1,2,3,…
a
7. What is the average diameter of a solid particle in a nozzle flow above which there is a chance of occurrence of thermal lag?
a) 0.1 μm
b) 10 μm
c) 100 μm
d) 1 μm
a
8. Which of the following does the nozzle boundary layer depend on?
I) Axial pressure gradient 
II) Nozzle geometry 
III) Surface roughness
a) I, II and III
b) Only II and III
c) Only I and III
d) Only III
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Rocket Propulsion.
To practice all areas of Rocket Propulsion, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Rocket Propulsion Questions and Answers – Chemical Rocket Propellant – Analysis of Chamber or Motor Case Conditions» Next - Rocket Propulsion Questions and Answers – Chemical Rocket Propellant – Results of Thermochemical Calculations 
