1. ______ is used for setting stabilizer position and high speed performance boundaries?
a) Mach number
b) True airspeed
c) Calibrated airspeed
d) Altitude
a
2. Which of the following does not come under air data computer?
a) Pressure ports
b) Pressure transducers
c) Computer
d) Output drivers for interfacing
a
3. An air data computer can be used in multiple aircraft.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Which one of the following is not a part of the processor subassembly?
a) CPU
b) Volatile RAM
c) Non volatile RAM
d) Non erasable ROM
d
5. Which of the following includes A/D conversions and packing of discrete signals into logical words?
a) Input processing
b) Output processing
c) Signal processing
d) Mainframe processor
a
6. Which system has replaced the CADC by using smaller and cheaper microprocessors?
a) Navigational system
b) Distributed air data system
c) FADEC
d) Inertial system
b
7. A distributed air data system uses a centralized flight control computer for calculations.
a) True
b) False
a
8. Which of the following is not an advantage of distributed air data system?
a) Elimination of pneumatic plumbing
b) Reliability
c) Easy maintenance
d) Better accuracy
d
9. Distributed air data system reduces the overall weight of the aircraft.
a) True
b) False
a
10. Which one of the following is not an advantage of centralized architecture?
a) Simple design
b) Software is easily coded
c) Computer is readily accessible
d) Software is flexible
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Avionics.
To practice all areas of Avionics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Avionics Questions and Answers – Air Data Equations» Next - Avionics Questions and Answers – Helicopter, Optical and Hyper Sonic Air Data 
