1. Why is the BFW system used?
a) To control aerodynamically efficient but unstable body
b) For communications in aircraft
c) Better navigation
d) Reduced chances of enemy detection
a
2. How is fly by wire system implemented in an aircraft?
a) By using control rods and linkages connecting stick to control surfaces
b) By using high power radio transmitters and receivers
c) By using computers and actuators to control surfaces
d) Artificial intelligence
c
3. Which one of the following is not true with respect to the FBW system?
a) FBW is not necessary for every aircraft
b) FBW makes an aircraft stealthy
c) FBW provides better control and carefree flying
d) FBW makes aircraft with low stability fly smoothly
b
4. Which of the following is not a component of the FBW system?
a) Flight control computer
b) Aircraft motion sensor
c) Actuators
d) Communication receivers
d
5. FBW system requires an air data system for control and stability.
a) True
b) False
a
6. How are FBW signals transmitted?
a) Simplex
b) Duplex
c) Time division multiplexing
d) Code division multiplexing
c
7. Which one of the following is a military standard data bus?
a) Mil Std 1553
b) ARINC 629
c) ARINC 429
d) COMAC C919
a
8. What type of cable is used in ARINC 629?
a) Coaxial cable
b) Screened twisted pair
c) Unscreened twisted pair
d) Parallel lines
c
9. Why are actuators used in FBW systems?
a) Movement of control surfaces
b) Reduce drag
c) Increase lift
d) Safety equipment
a
10. Why are both electrical and hydraulic systems are used in the same aircraft?
a) To generate more force
b) Quick deflections
c) As a fail safe
d) Hydraulics for more force and electric for quick deflections
c
11. The reason for using quadruplex actuation system is _______
a) precise movement
b) to counteract heavy air loads on the control surfaces
c) quick reaction to the control stick movement
d) as a fail safe mechanism
d
12. In a typical quadruplex actuator system, how is the failure of an actuator identified?
a) By comparing it with the signal of the three good ones
b) By comparing it with a simulation model
c) Using in-lane fault detection
d) Using reflectometry
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Avionics.
To practice all areas of Avionics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Avionics Questions and Answers – Control and Data Entry» Next - Avionics Questions and Answers – Fly-By-Wire Technology – 2 
