1. The process of using a pulse signal to represent information is called _______
a) Pulse modulation
b) Frequency modulation
c) Amplitude modulation
d) Phase modulation
a
2. Which of the following is false with respect to pulse modulation?
a) Less power consumption
b) Low noise
c) Degraded signal can be regenerated
d) Can transmit analog as well as digital waves
d
3. Which of the following is not a form of pulse modulation?
a) Pulse amplitude modulation
b) Pulse width modulation
c) Pulse position modulation
d) Pulse frequency modulation
d
4. How many voltage levels are present in a PWM signal?
a) 0
b) 1
c) 2
d) 3
c
5. Power consumption is low in pulse modulation.
a) True
b) False
a
6. Which pulse modulation technique is least expensive?
a) Pulse amplitude modulation
b) Pulse width modulation
c) Pulse position modulation
d) Pulse code modulation
a
7. Which of the following is false with respect to pulse position modulation?
a) Can be transmitted in broadband
b) Modulates a high frequency carrier
c) Pulse is narrow
d) Pulse width changes in accordance with the amplitude of modulating signal
d
8. Pulse modulation is not used in which of the following?
a) Telemetry systems
b) Remote control models
c) Switch power modes
d) Communication of airplane with ATC
d
9. The process of signal compression and expansion used to reduce distortion and noise is called _____
a) Amplification
b) Companding
c) Compressing
d) Modulating
b
10. What type of digital modulation is widely used for digital data transmission?
a) Pulse amplitude modulation
b) Pulse width modulation
c) Pulse position modulation
d) Pulse code modulation
d
11. What is the output voltage if the input voltage of a compander with a maximum voltage range of 1 V and a μ of 255 is 0.25?
a) 0V
b) 0.25V
c) 0.5V
d) 0.75V
d
12. What is the output voltage if the input voltage of a compander with a maximum voltage range of 1 V and a μ of 255 is 0.8V0?
a) 0.08V
b) 0.458V
c) 1.02V
d) 1.54V
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Avionics.
To practice all areas of Avionics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Avionics Questions and Answers – Data Conversion – 3» Next - Avionics Questions and Answers – Digital Signal Processing 
