1. What does the accelerometer measure?
a) Mass
b) Acceleration
c) Velocity
d) Distance
b
2. What is the output given by an accelerometer if the instrument is accelerated upward with an acceleration of 7g?
a) 5g
b) 8g
c) 6g
d) 6.5g
b
3. Which accelerometer uses torquer coil and pick off supported by a flexure to measure acceleration?
a) MEMS accelerometer
b) Flexure pivot accelerometer
c) Vibrating beam accelerometer
d) Mechanical accelerometer
b
4. In flexure pivot accelerometer, the torque current is a measure of acceleration.
a) True
b) False
a
5. Why do accelerometers that include fluid damping exhibit reduced damping?
a) State of fluid
b) Density
c) Pressure
d) Thermal characters
d
6. An accelerometer can only measure acceleration in one direction?
a) True
b) False
a
7. Which of the following is true with respect to flexure pivot accelerometers?
a) Flexure must provide maximum resistance in the direction of input axis
b) Flexure must provide maximum resistance in the direction other than input axis
c) Torquer coil current measures the acceleration
d) Unbalanced accelerometer type
a
8. Which of the following conditions cause rectification of vibration inputs?
a) Heating
b) Low voltage
c) High voltage
d) Low current
a
9. What does silicon accelerometers use for proof mass sensing and for rebalancing?
a) Pivot
b) Flexure
c) Metalised wafers
d) Single crystal silicon frame
c
10. Which type of rebalancing technique use voltage applied to pendulum and electrode for correction?
a) Charge forcing
b) Voltage forcing
c) Current forcing
d) Potential forcing
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Avionics.
To practice all areas of Avionics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Avionics Questions and Answers – Global Orbiting Navigational Satellite System» Next - Avionics Questions and Answers – Gyroscopes – 1 
