1. What is the speed at which the takeoff is aborted when there is an engine failure?
a) Decision speed
b) Stall speed
c) Rotational speed
d) Takeoff speed
b
2. The distance the aircraft has to cover in the ground to achieve takeoff speed is called?
a) Ground roll
b) Take off distance
c) Runway length
d) Airborne distance
a
3. The distance the aircraft climbs to clear an obstacle of particular height during takeoff is called as?
a) Ground roll
b) Take off distance
c) Runway length
d) Airborne distance
d
4. What is the takeoff clearance height for a military aircraft?
a) 50ft
b) 35ft
c) 20ft
d) 100ft
a
5. The velocity at which yawing motion can be produced by rudder deflection while the aircraft is on the ground is called _______
a) Ground roll speed
b) Ground control speed
c) Minimum control speed on the ground
d) Control speed
c
6. Departure and approach are subphases of what?
a) Landing phase
b) Takeoff phase
c) Terminal phase
d) Surface phase
c
7. The height at which approach is aborted when the runway is not in sight is called as?
a) Decision height
b) Approach altitude
c) Clearance altitude
d) Landing altitude
a
8. A non-precision approach has electronic guidance in only in the horizontal direction.
a) True
b) False
a
9. What instrument is used to measure the aircraft’s altitude during the approach phase?
a) Pressure altimeter
b) Radio altimeter
c) Sound altimeter
d) Infrared altimeter
b
10. Which of the following conditions does not lead to missed approaches?
a) Poor visibility
b) Excess fuel
c) Alignment with runway
d) Traffic
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Avionics.
To practice all areas of Avionics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Avionics Questions and Answers – Guidance and Navigation» Next - Avionics Questions and Answers – Navigation Equations 
