1. What are the four electromechanical devices retained while making an avionics update for old aircraft?
a) Vertical speed indicator, airspeed indicator, artificial horizon and heading indicator
b) Altimeter, airspeed indicator, artificial horizon and angle of attack indicator
c) Altimeter, airspeed indicator, turns coordinator and heading indicator
d) Altimeter, airspeed indicator, artificial horizon and heading indicator
d
2. OLED display is better than LED because ________
a) They are cheaper
b) They have high brightness
c) Do not require any illuminating source
d) Easy to manufacture
c
3. What are the 5 primary mechanical displays, a Primary Flight Display (PFD) can replace?
a) Altimeter, turn coordinator, vertical speed indicator, artificial horizon and heading/compass indicator
b) Altimeter, vertical speed indicator, artificial horizon, heading/compass indicator and Mach meter
c) Altimeter, vertical speed indicator, artificial horizon, heading/compass indicator and landing gear position
d) Altimeter, turn coordinator, artificial horizon, heading/compass indicator and Mach meter
b
4. Why are mechanical instruments retained when high tech LED displays are available?
a) LED displays are costly
b) LED Displays cannot withstand the flight environment conditions
c) Probability of failure
d) Accuracy
c
5. Which of the following is false with respect to multi-function LCD displays in cockpits?
a) High resolution
b) More information to be displayed
c) Bigger and customizable display
d) Take more space in cockpits
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. How many Primary Flight Displays are present in typical civil aircraft cockpit?
a) 1
b) 2
c) 4
d) 3
b
7. Which one of the following is false with respect to electromechanical instruments?
a) High cost
b) Require skilled labor for repair
c) Accurate measurements
d) Inevitable wear
c
8. What are the standby instruments that are combined in a Solid state integrated standby instrument?
a) Altimeter, vertical speed indicator, artificial horizon
b) Altimeter, airspeed indicator
c) Altimeter, airspeed indicator, artificial horizon
d) Altimeter, turn coordinator, artificial horizon, heading/compass indicator and Mach meter
c
9. What is the operating voltage of Solid-state integrated standby instrument?
a) 11V DC
b) 28V DC
c) 5V DC
d) 115V DC
b
10. The solid-state instruments are of higher accuracy than mechanical systems.
a) True
b) False
a
 Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Avionics.
To practice all areas of Avionics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Avionics Questions and Answers – Helmet Mounted Displays» Next - Avionics Questions and Answers – Control and Data Entry 
