1. In which type of inertial navigation system are the gyro and accelerometer rigidly mounted to the body?
a) Gimballed system
b) Fixed system
c) Strapdown system
d) Void system
c
2. What the gyro act as in a strapdown system?
a) Angular rate sensors
b) Null sensors
c) Angle indicators
d) Orientation indicators
a
3. Which one of the following is not a purpose of strapdown calculations?
a) Calculate vehicle’s attitude
b) Transform accelerometer measurements into navigational coordinates
c) Perform dead-reckoning computations
d) Provide inputs to air data computer
d
4. Which of the following is a four element entity consisting of a scalar and a vector and is used to describe strapdown system rotation?
a) Directional cosines
b) Directional sines
c) Quaternion
d) Triternion
c
5. What does the quaternion integration algorithm use to control error?
a) Linearization constraint
b) Normalization constraint
c) Differential constraint
d) Integral constraints
b
6. What type of error occurs if the axis of rotation is moving in space?
a) Linearization errors
b) Control error
c) Coning error
d) Differential error
c
7. Pre-processing algorithms are also called as _________
a) Coning algorithm
b) Error control algorithm
c) Differential algorithm
d) Resolution algorithm
a
8. Why is the gyro and accelerometers shock mounted to the body?
a) Impact protection
b) Reduce drift error
c) Prevent voltage surges
d) Limit vibration errors
d
9.  Sculling errors occur when rotation and acceleration are combined.
a) True
b) False
a
10. Which of the following is false with respect to gimballed platform?
a) Orients the accelerometers into a coordinate frame relative to Earth
b) Euler angles are not easily readable from the gimbals
c) Protect the instruments from large angular motion
d) Protection from vibration, temperature and magnetic effects.
b
11. When does a gimbal lock occur on a three axis platform?
a) Inner gimbal approaches 90°
b) Inner gimbal approaches 0°
c) Outer gimbal approaches 90°
d) Middle gimbal approaches 90°
d
12. Which of the following factors affect the ability of a stable element to remain non-rotating relative to space?
a)  Drift rate of the reference gyro
b)  Accuracy of gyro torquer
c)  Linear motion of the vehicle
d)  Orthogonality of the components on the platform
c
13. In any order of gimbal, the innermost gimbal has unlimited freedom.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Avionics.
To practice all areas of Avionics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Avionics Questions and Answers – Gyroscopes – 2» Next - Avionics Questions and Answers – Pressure Measurements 
