1. Frequency division multiplexing:Frequency slots::time division multiplexing:?
a) Time slots
b) Coded information
c) Pulsed information
d) Band slots
a
2. Serial transmission is not possible without time division multiplexing.
a) True
b) False
a
3. What device is used to demodulate a time division multiplexed analog wave?
a) High pass filter
b) Low pass filter
c) Band stop filter
d) Attenuator
b
4. Which of the following device was used in early TDM/PAM telemetry systems?
a) Commuter
b) Linear switch
c) Logic gates
d) DSP
a
5. What is the time allocated for each channel if the number of samples per frame is 4 and the frame rate is 100frames/sec?
a) 1.2ms
b) 3ms
c) 2.5ms
d) 0.54ms
c
6. What is the purpose of one shot multivibrator?
a) Trigger all AND gates at clock frequency
b) Trigger all OR gates at clock frequency
c) Trigger all AND gates at signal frequency
d) Trigger all OR gates at signal frequency
a
7. The circuit used to regenerate clock pulses from the transmitted PAM signals is called ____
a) Clock demodulator circuits
b) Timer circuits
c) Clock receiving circuits
d) Clock recovery circuits
d
8. What are used to reduce or stop synchronization problems while receiving?
a) Clock recovery circuits
b) Demodulators
c) Synchronizer
d) Band pass filter
a
9. In a four channel system, all four signals transmitted contain information.
a) True
b) False
b
10. Which of the following is not an advantage of time division multiplexing?
a) Signal interference is less
b) More flexible
c) Full channel can be used for every signal
d) Fast data transfer
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Avionics.
To practice all areas of Avionics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Avionics Questions and Answers – Frequency Division Multiplexing» Next - Avionics Questions and Answers – Pulse Code Modulation 
