1. What is the temperature of the air surrounding the aircraft called as?
a) Stagnation temperature
b) Static temperature
c) Total temperature
d) Overall temperature
b
2. What is the temperature measured by a probe on the exterior of a moving aircraft?
a) Static temperature
b) Stagnation temperature
c) Free stream temperature
d) Constant temperature
b
3. Why is a hole required at the rear end of the temperature probe?
a) Dual measurements
b) Redundancy
c) Reduce time lag
d) Convective cooling
c
4. Which is the optimum place for a temperature probe?
a) Landing gear
b) Inside cockpit
c) Exit of engine
d) Tip of vertical tail
d
5. The recovery factor for computing the static temperature does not account for _____
a) Friction heating
b) Re-radiation
c) Nonisentropic compression
d) Isentropic compression
d
6. The temperature is probe is actually an electric coil whose resistance varies with temperature.
a) True
b) False
a
7. What error will a 10°C error in temperature shown in true airspeed?
a) 10 Knots
b) 20 Knots
c) 0.2 Knots
d) Greater than 1 Knot
d
8. The angle between the relative wind and the longitudinal datum line on the fuselage is called as?
a) Flight path angle
b) Glide angle
c) Relative angle
d) Angle of attack
d
9. Which flight critical system is the angle of attack indicator a part of?
a) Stall warning system
b) Airspeed indicator system
c) Landing system
d) Rate of climb indicator system
a
10. Sideslip sensors are only used in experimental aircraft and not in general aviation or commercial aircraft.
a) True
b)  False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Avionics.
To practice  all areas of Avionics for online Quizzes, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Avionics Questions and Answers – Pressure Measurements» Next - Avionics Questions and Answers – Air Data Equations 
