1. How does the digital implementation in the FBW system reduce weight?
a) Lightweight materials
b) Fewer components
c) System integration
d) Automated control
c
2. Which of the following is not a result of digital implementation?
a) Hardware economy
b) Flexibility in updating
c) More power
d) Built in test capabilities
c
3. What is it called when the sampled signal is of lower frequency than the original signal?
a) Aliasing
b) Overshoot
c) Steady state error
d) Damping
a
4. How is aliasing prevented?
a) Sampling at the same frequency of the original signal
b) Sampling at double the frequency of the original signal
c) Sampling at less than double the frequency of the original signal
d) Sampling at more than double the frequency of the original signal
d
5. How is data staleness overcome?
a) Time synchronisation
b) Down conversion
c) Up conversion
d) Using multiple channels
a
6. Which of the following is not an advantage of using a digital data bus?
a) Self test
b) Multiplexing
c) less weight
d) Not affected by electromagnetic interference
d
7. What happens when the output of one channel is delayed by one iteration period before comparing with other channels in a quadruplex system?
a) Latency
b) Staleness
c) Aliasing
d) High noise
b
8. Which of the following is true with respect to the passive optical sensor?
a) Not affected by EMI
b) Does not require an electrical supply
c) Output from the sensor is an optical signal
d) Processing this signal does not require any electrical device
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Avionics.
To practice all areas of Avionics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Avionics Questions and Answers – Redundancy and Failure Survival in FBW» Next - Avionics Questions and Answers – Fly-by-Light Flight Control 
