1. Which of the following is not a satellite subsystem?
a) Ground station
b) Power system
c) Telemetry tracking
d) Communication subsystem
a
2. Which of the following is not a part of the propulsion subsystem of a satellite?
a) Gyroscope
b) Jet thruster
c) AKM
d) Fuel control system
a
3. Which of the following are common baseband signals transmitted from the earth ground station?
a) Navigational data, computer data, video
b) Computer data, navigational data, voice
c) Voice, video, computer data
d) Computer data
c
4. Which of the following components receives, translates the signal frequency and re-transmits the signal in a satellite?
a) Repeater
b) Relay
c) Transponder
d) Transducer
c
5. Why is there a huge spectrum space between the transmitted and received signal in satellite communication?
a) Reduce interference
b) Maximum efficiency
c) Less attenuation
d) To reduce space occupied by filters
a
6. Which of the following transponders convert the uplink signal to downlink signal using two mixers
a) Single conversion transponders
b) Dual conversion transponders
c) Regenerative transponders
d) Dual mixer transponder
b
7. In a regenerative transponder, the signal is demodulated and modulated again before transmission.
a) True
b) False
a
8. What is the number of transponders if the satellite uses 12 channels of frequency and frequency reuse is implemented?
a) 12
b) 6
c) 24
d) 3
c
9. Why is it not possible to provide transmit function by wideband amplifier and mixer circuits?
a) Heavy attenuation
b) High power output over wideband is not possible
c) Economically not profitable
d) Weight of the system increases five fold
b
10. Which of the following is not true?
a) Battery is only used as a back up
b) When in orbit, solar power is always available
c) Battery is used for initial satellite orientation and stabilization
d) The batteries are charged using solar power
b
11. Telemetry, command, and control (TC&C) subsystem allow a ground station to monitor and control conditions in the satellite.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Avionics.
To practice all areas of Avionics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Avionics Questions and Answers – Satellite Communication Systems» Next - Avionics Questions and Answers – Ground Stations 
