1. Which one of the following is not a function of the FMS?
a) Flight guidance and control of flight path
b) Monitor and regulate speed of the aircraft
c) Automatically switch between different types of communication
d) Automatic control of engine thrust
c
2. What does the following figure represent?
a) Flight Management System
b) Flight Data System
c) Total autopilot system
d) Flight Management Computer
a
3. The number of independent FMS in a typical commercial aircraft is?
a) 1
b) 2
c) 5
d) 7
b
4. Which of the following is not a way cockpit-flight crew interfaces in the FMS?
a) Primary Flight Display
b) Multi Function Display
c) Keyboard and Cursor Control Unit
d) Target Detection and Locking System
d
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
5. What type of cockpit flight crew interface is used to enter or modify the data on the MFD?
a) Keyboard and Cursor Control Unit
b) Control stick
c) Control Switches
d) Control levers
a
6. What control does the EFIS Control Panel provide?
a) Control over graphical and textual FMS data
b) Control over flight plan
c) Control over flight performance
d) Navigation through FMS pages
a
7. What is the number of Flight Management Computers used in a typical commercial aircraft?
a) 2
b) 1
c) 4
d) 3
d
8. What operating mode of the FMS does the figure show?
a) Double mode
b) Independent mode
c) Single mode
d) Redundancy mode
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Avionics.
To practice all areas of Avionics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Avionics Questions and Answers – ILS/MLS Coupled Landing System and Automatic Landing – 2» Next - Avionics Questions and Answers – Flight Management Systems – 2 
