1. Which of the following type of multiplexing uses pulse code modulation?
a) Frequency division multiplexing
b) Time division multiplexing
c) Code division multiplexing
d) Amplitude limited multiplexing
b
2. Which of the following statements is true with respect to PCM?
a) The parallel binary data is converted into serial before transmission
b) Analog data is transmitted directly
c) Analog signal is amplified before transmission
d) The analog signal is converted into parallel binary data before transmission
a
3. Which of the following is false with respect to PCM?
a) Reliable
b) Inexpensive
c) Resistant to noise
d) Not easily recoverable
d
4. A special PCM system uses 16 channels of data, one whose purpose is identification (ID) and synchronization. Find (a) the number of available data channels.
a) 15
b) 16
c) 14
d) 18
a
Join [email protected]
5.  A special PCM system uses 16 channels of data, one whose purpose is an identification (ID) and synchronization. The word length is 6 bits. Find the number of bits per frame.
a) 94
b) 95
c) 96
d) 125
c
Bits per frame = 6 x 16 = 96.
6.  A special PCM system uses 16 channels of data, one whose purpose is an identification (ID) and synchronization. The sampling rate is 3.5 kHz. The word length is 6 bits. Find the serial data rate.
a) 451kHz
b) 326kHz
c) 152kHz
d) 336kHz
d
7. All local and long-distance connections are digital.
a) True
b) False
a
8. In a TDD one channel is sufficient for transmission.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Avionics.
To practice all areas of Avionics, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Avionics Questions and Answers – Time Division Multiplexing» Next - Avionics Questions and Answers – Transmission Line Basics – 1 
