1. Based on which forging technique is the connecting rod forged?
a) Closed die forging
b) Press forging
c) Drop forging
d) Open die forging
c
2. Which of the following is the proper measurement of the connecting rod length?
a) Length of shank
b) Length between the small end and big end axis
c) Length between the small end and the length of the shank
d) Length between the big end and the length of the shank
b
3. Buckling is found in which part of the engine?
a) Intake manifold
b) Piston
c) Connecting rod
d) Glow plug
c
4. Which are the combination of stresses acting on the connecting rod?
a) Shear and torsion
b) Torsion and tensile
c) Tensile and
d) Axial and bending stresses
d
5. Identify the following part of the connecting rod shown below?
a) Shank
b) Bush
c) Float
d) Plunger
a
6. Which of the following does the connecting rod connect?
a) Piston and crankshaft
b) Accelerator pedal and venturi
c) Cam and crankshaft
d) Sleeve and cotter
a
7. For which to which part is the hole drilled for lubrication in a connecting rod?
a) Piston to crankshaft
b) Piston to connecting rod
c) Small end to big end of the connecting rod
d) Only in piston
c
8. Which of the following material is used in the manufacturing of the connecting rod?
a) Magnesium
b) Copper
c) Bronze
d) Steel
d
9. Which of the following is defined as whipping stress?
a) Bending stress due to compression
b) Bending stress due to inertia
c) Bending stress due to
d) Bending stress due to torsion
b
10. Which of the following formula is used to find the force acting on the connecting rod neglecting the cos theta angle and position of the connecting rod?
a) Force=Maximum gas pressure ×(π)
b) Force=(π×D/4)
c) Force=(π×D2/4)×maximum gas pressure
d) Force=(D2/4)× Stroke length
c
11. Which of the following shows the correct relationship between critical buckling and force acting on the connecting rod?
a) Critical buckling load = factor of safety ×force on connecting rod
b) Critical buckling load = Factor of safety
c) Critical buckling load = force on the connecting rod
d) Critical buckling load = force on the connecting rod /factor of safety
a
12. What is the percentage of carbon present in a medium carbon steel type connecting rod?
a) 0-0.1
b) 0.1-0.2
c) 0.25-0.35
d) 0.35-0.45
d
13. In splash lubrication, the spout is attached to with part of the connecting rod?
a) Piston
b) Shank
c) Big end
d) Small end
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems.
To practice advanced questions and answers on all areas of Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems Questions and Answers – Engine Components – Piston Rings» Next - Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems Questions and Answers – Engine Components – Crankshafts 
