1. Based on which principle does the hydraulic governor works?
a) No inverting amplifier
b) Inverted hydraulic amplifier
c) Low pass filter
d) High pass filter
b
2. Which of the following is an example of a maximum speed governor?
a) Pneumatic governor
b) Mechanical governor
c) Hydraulic governor
d) Both hydraulic and pneumatic
b
3. Which of the following is not a part of a pneumatic governor?
a) Vacuum pipe
b) Venturi unit
c) Diaphragm
d) Glow plug
d
4. The difference between which of the following is termed as governor overrun?
a) Between governor hysteresis and governor runoff
b) Between governor runoff and governor cut-in speed
c) Between governor cut-in speed and governor hysteresis
d) Between governor cut-off speed  and governor cut-in speed
d
5. Which of the following links the accelerator pedal and pump control rack in a speed governor?
a) Governor
b) Venturi control unit
c) Fuel injector
d) Plunger
a
6. What of the following gets actuated when the spring tension is adjusted and the fuel delivery decreases?
a) Control rack
b) Accelerator pedal
c) Cam
d) Sleeve
a
7. Which of the following is defined as the speed of the fuel injection pump at which the control rod moves away from the maximum fuel to stop with the accelerator lever set for maximum speed?
a) Governor cut-off speed
b) Governor hysteresis
c) Governor run-off
d) Governor cut-in speed
d
8. Which of the following gives the drive to the governor shaft?
a) Motor
b) Engine
c) Alternator
d) Ignition coil
b
9. Which of the following is defined as the percentage speed change when the control rod is moved by the governor from the maximum fuel delivery position to the no-fuel delivery position?
a) Governor hysteresis
b) Governor run-off
c) Governor cut-in speed
d) Governor cut-off speed
b
10. Which of the following controls the position of the butterfly valve in the venturi unit?
a) Motor
b) Spring
c) Accelerator pedal
d) Adjusting screw
c
11. Which of the following is defined as the difference between the governor cutoff speed at which the fuel delivery stops with the increasing injection pump speed and the cut-off speed at which point fuel delivery just restarts with the decreasing injection pump speed?
a) Governor hysteresis
b) Governor run-off
c) Governor cut-in speed
d) Governor cut-off speed
a
12. Which of the following helps in the idling spring adjustment?
a) Spring and lever
b) Camshaft
c) Rack and pinion
d) Gears meshed
a
13. As the engine speed increases, which force acts against the spring tension?
a) Rolling force
b) Friction force
c) Centrifugal force
d) Both rolling and friction force
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems.
To practice all areas of Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems Questions and Answers – Diesel Engine Fuel Supply System – Fuel Injector» Next - Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems Questions and Answers – Modern Common Rail Fuel Injection System 
