1. Which among the following is not a function of the piston rings?
a) To seal the high-pressure gases
b) Easy passage for the heat to flow from crown to cylinder
c) Maintain sufficient lubrication
d) Helps in detonation
b
2. Which of the following is provided to make up for the cylinder wear?
a) Ring expander
b) Temperature sensor
c) Pressure relief valve
d) Crankcase ventilation
a
3. Which among the following is defined as percentage gap collapse when the ring closed to nominal cylinder diameter for 6 hrs at 350 degrees centigrade?
a) Thermal set
b) Pulse width
c) Base pulse width
d) Enthalpy
a
4. Which of the following is not a factor for scuffing?
a) Proper protecting lubrication film
b) Overheated engine
c) Insufficient clearance
d) Lack of lubrication
a
5. Which among the following type of piston ring is used for worn-out cylinders?
a) Delay action scraper ring
b) Composite rail scraper ring
c) Multi-piece oil control ring
d) Carbo glide ring
b
6. Which of the is caused due to excess of end gap?
a) Blow by and rapid wear
b) Scuffing and rapid wear
c) only rapid wear
d) Both blow bye and scuffing
d
7.  Which of the following is not an advantage of reducing the ring width?
a) Machining the narrow grooves
b) Better resistance to ring scuffing
c) better resistance to ring flutter
d) Ring inertia are reduced
a
8. What is the range in millimeter of the end gap for the top compression ring per 25mm of bore size?
a) 0.01-0.04
b) 0.04-0.07
c) 0.07-0.12
d) 0.12-0.15
c
9.  Which of the following type of piston ring end gap is shown below?
a) Seal cut
b) Butt
c) Tapered
d) Gapless
b
10. What is the reduction of gas leakage in a gapless type ring?
a) 40-50
b) 10-20
c) 50-60
d) Has no effect
b
11. Which are the other materials added to cast iron in the manufacturing of piston ring?
a) Aluminum and phosphorus
b) Silicon and aluminum
c) Silicon and manganese
d) Cadmium and phosphorus
c
12. What is the minimum number of compression rings required in an engine?
a) 5
b) 1
c) 2
d) 3
c
13. Which of the following is not a factor for ring selection?
a) Scavenging ratio
b) Dimensions of engine block
c) Piston design
d) Piston displacement
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems.
To practice all areas of Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems Questions and Answers – Engine Components – Pistons» Next - Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems Questions and Answers – Engine Components – Connecting Rod 
