1. What is the another name of supercharger?
a) Pump
b) Diffuser
c) Cooler
d) Compressor
d
2. Which of the mentioned below is not a driving mechanism of a supercharger?
a) Exhaust gas
b) Belt
c) Gear
d) Chain
a
3. For a super charger, the drive is obtained by which part of the engine?
a) Cam
b) Connecting rod
c) Exhaust manifold
d) Crankshaft
d
4. Which are the types of supercharger based on method of gas transfer?
a) Positive displacement and dynamic compressors
b) Positive displacement and negative displacement
c) Dynamic compressors and Static compressors
d) Negative displacement and Static compressors
a
5. Which supercharger delivers an almost constant level pressure increase at all engine RPM?
a) Dynamic compressor
b) Negative displacement
c) Static compressor
d) Positive displacement
d
6. Which supercharger doesn’t deliver pressure at low speeds?
a) Dynamic compressor
b) Negative displacement
c) Static compressor
d) Positive displacement
a
7. On what basis positive displacement superchargers are usually rated?
a) Capacity per revolution
b) Parts per million
c) Displacement of engine
d) Size of exhaust manifold
a
8. Which of the mentioned below is the disadvantage of supercharger?
a) More volume of air
b) Increase in temperature
c) Higher density
d) Cold air
b
9. Internal compression devices usually use varying compression ratio.
a) True
b) False
b
10. When the boosted pressure is equal to the compression pressure of the supercharger, what is the value of the backflow?
a) 10
b) 4
c) 2
d) 0
d
11. Which are the types of dynamic compressors?
a) Centrifugal and centripetal
b) Single-stage and multi-stage axial flow
c) Centripetal and single-stage axial flow
d) Centrifugal and multi-stage axial flow
d
12. What happens to the engine if there is an increase in the temperature of the air+fuel mixture?
a) Lower vibration
b) Higher torque
c) High efficiency
d) Detonation
d
13. In two-stroke engines, what is required to purge exhaust gasses?
a) Lighter piston
b) Lubrication
c) Oil
d) Scavenging
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems.
To practice all areas of Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems Questions and Answers – Exhaust System – Mufflers» Next - Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems Questions and Answers – Petrol Engine Fuel Supply System – Superchargers Types 
