1. Using which among the following are the jets present in a carburetor should be cleaned?
a) Water and antifreeze
b) Diesel and petrol
c) Petrol and blast of air
d) Kerosene and wire
c
2. Concerning the idle port area which among the following decreases by screwing the idle screw?
a) Pressure
b) Clearance
c) Engine speed
d) Air – fuel
c
3. What can we recognize if the color of the exhaust smoke is black?
a) Overheating of the engine
b) Loss of power
c) Unburnt carbon particle
d) Stalling of the engine
b
4. Which among the following is not an indication of the extra weak mixture?
a) Loss of power
b) Overheating of engine
c) Stalling of the engine
d) Surging while idling
d
5. What is the main reason for throttle adjustment?
a) To know the play of the acceleration pedal
b) To decrease the engine speed
c) To check the float
d) Both decrease the engine speed andcheck the float
a
6. What is the first step in removing the carburetor?
a) Remove the throttle and choke linkage
b) Adjustment of the carburetor screw
c) Wash with petrol
d) Clean with the blast of air
a
7.  What is the number of rotation that has to be given to the idle screw to adjust the carburetor?
a) 2
b) 2.5
c) 1
d) 3
b
8. How many numbers of jets are present in a simple carburetor?
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4
b
9. In which among the following does not depend on the carburetor to provide the correct mixture of air-fuel?
a) Idling
b) Crushing
c) Accelerating
d) Pressure relief
d
10. Which among the following should never be used in the cleaning of jets present in a carburetor?
a) Petrol
b) Blast of air
c) Wire
d) Carb cleaner
c
11. What can we say about the air-fuel mixture if the engine is stalling by itself?
a) The extra weak mixture is supplied
b) An extra rich mixture is supplied
c) Combustion in muffler
d) The color of the exhaust smoke is black
a
12. Which among the following is not an indication of a rich mixture?
a) Loud murder explosion
b) High fuel consumption
c) Surging while idling
d) Stalling of the engine
d
13.  Which among the following is not a secondary adjustment?
a) Accelerating pump
b) Metering rod
c) Floats
d) Idle adjuster
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems.
To practice all areas of Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems for Quizzes,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems Questions and Answers – Petrol Engine Fuel Supply System – Carburettor Types» Next - Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems Questions and Answers – Petrol Injection 
