1. Which material is used for the valves of the A.C mechanical pump?
a) Cast iron
b) Plastic
c) Bakelite
d) Paper
c
2. What is the pressure range in kPa in the petrol pipeline between the fuel pump and the carburetor?
a) 5-10
b) 10-20
c) 20-35
d) 35-40
c
3. Which of the following provides the force to drive the pump?
a) Crankshaft
b) Differential
c) Camshaft
d) V-belt
c
4. Which of the following helps in the relief of the excess pressure which is built up?
a) Pull rod
b) Diaphragm return spring
c) Camshaft
d) Suction valve
b
5. Which material is used in the diaphragm of an A.C mechanical pump?.
a) Paper
b) Metal sheet
c) High-grade cotton and rubber
d) Ceramic
c
6. Which type of energy is used to operate the diaphragm in an S U electrical pump?
a) Mechanical
b) Hydraulic
c) Electrical
d) Solar
c
7. Which of the following is the correct sequence of fuel travel?
a) Tank – fuel pump – fuel filter – carburetor
b) Tank – fuel filter – fuel pump – carburetor
c) Fuel filter – fuel pump – tank – carburetor
d) Carburetor – fuel pump – fuel filter – tank
a
8. Which valve opens when the downward movement of the diaphragm causes a vacuum in the chamber?
a) Outlet
b) Inlet
c) Both outlet and inlet
d) Transfer
b
9. Which system experiences  Vapour locking in the fuel system?
a) A.C mechanical pump
b) S U electrical pump
c) Both A.C mechanical pump and S U electrical pump
d) Electrical pump
a
10. Which of the following component movement interrupts the electrical supply by disconnecting the breaker points?
a) Float chamber
b) Diaphragm
c) Strainer
d) Armature
d
11. Which of the following has the requirement of placing the pump necessarily close to the engine ?
a) A.C mechanical pump
b) S U electrical pump
c) A.C mechanical pump & S U electrical pump
d) Electric pump
a
12. In which system the pump starts to operate immediately as the ignition is switched on?
a) A.C mechanical pump
b) S U electrical pump
c) A.C mechanical pump & S U electrical pump
d) Mechanical pump
b
13. Which property of the diaphragm return spring helps in the determination of the exact pressure range?
a) Tension
b) Stress
c) Starin
d) Stiffness
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems.
To practice  all areas of Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems for online Quizzes,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems Questions and Answers – Lubrication and Lubricants – Oil Filters» Next - Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems Questions and Answers – Petrol Engine Fuel Supply System – Air Cleaners 
