1. By how much variation in the gravity points cell gravity variation can be found?
a) 9
b) 5
c) 10
d) 6
c
2. To avoid which of the following the water level in the electrolyte should be checked periodically?
a) To control the temperature
b) To control the pressure
c) To avoid the damage of the separator and plates
d) To avoid the damage of the electrodes
c
3. Which is the liquid that is used in the cleaning of the battery terminals and clamps to avoid corrosion?
a) Hydrochloric acid
b) Dilute sulphuric acid
c) Liquid ammonia
d) Liquid nitrogen
c
4. Which of the following is not a cause for deterioration of plates?
a) The high specific gravity of the electrolyte
b) Freezing of electrolyte
c) Mechanical damage to the battery
d) The proper mixture of water and acid
c
5. Which of the following is not a reason for the self-discharge of the battery?
a) Contamination of electrolyte
b) Damaged separators
c) Long term storage
d) Use of distilled water for electrolyte
d
6.  Which of the following increases due to a reduction in the capacity of battery plates due to sulphation?
a) Pressure
b) Internal resistance
c) Temperature
d) Enthalpy
b
7.  Which of the following is the result of long term storage of the battery?
a) Low load
b) variation in pressure
c) Variation in enthalpy
d) Stratification
d
8. In which type of battery there is no requirement of any water during normal service?
a) Lead-acid
b) Lithium-ion
c) Lead-cadmium grid
d) Zinc-air
a
9. Which of the following is the reason for the discolouring of electrolyte?
a) Improper water and acid in the electrolyte
b) Plates are disintegrating
c) No proper vent plugs
d) Freezing material in the electrolyte
b
10. Which among the following damage leads to internal short-circuiting?
a) Separator
b) Post strap
c) Vent plug
d) Container
a
11. Which of the following is not a precaution to avoid sulphation?
a) Proper electrolyte level
b) Proper specific gravity
c) Rapid discharging
d) Proper water addition
c
12. Which of the following lead to the bulged case of a battery?
a) Loss of water
b) Internal short-circuiting
c) Sulphation
d) Overcharging
d
13. Which of the reason for cracking of the battery container as shown below?
a) Mechanical shocks and jolts
b) High-pressure relief
c) Temperature difference
d) Variation in voltage
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems.
To practice all written questions on Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems Questions and Answers – Battery Charging» Next - Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems Questions and Answers – Lithium-Ion Battery 
