1. Which among the following is a function of air cleaner when the engine back-fires?
a) Flame arrester
b) Diffuser
c) Flame arrester and Diffuser
d) Pressure reliever
a
2. Which among the following is a function of an air cleaner concerning the carburation system?
a) Reducing agent
b) Catalyst
c) Silencer
d) Ventilation
c
3. Which part of the engine does not rapidly wear due to impurities like dust?
a) Cylinder
b) Pistons
c) Rings
d) Camshaft
d
4. When an air cleaner gets clogged with dirt. How are the airflow,Engine performance, and fuel consumption respectively?
a) Increase, sluggish, lower
b) Decrease, sluggish,higher
c) Increase, better, lower
d) Has no effect
b
5. Which among the following is an example ofan oil bath type air filter?
a) Thermostatic control of air cleaner
b) Light duty types of air cleaner
c) Heavy-duty type air cleaner
d) Thermostatic control of air cleaner light duty types of air cleaner
c
6. In which type of air filter at idling or cold start condition the incoming air is heated and then sent to the cleaner?
a) Heavy-duty type air cleaner
b) Light duty type air cleaner
c) Thermostatic control of air cleaner
d) Heavy-duty type air cleaner and Light duty type air cleaner
c
7.  At what temperature in degree centigrade such that the bleed valve opening is maximum when the hot air supply is cut-off?
a) 10
b) 20
c) 30
d) 40
d
8. Which material is used as a cleaning element in a light-duty type air cleaner?
a) Plastic
b) Metal
c) Cellulose
d) Both Plastic and metal
c
9.  To increase which of the following the cleaning element is corrugated and exposed to the incoming air?
a) Temperature
b) Pressure
c) Surface area
d) Force
c
10. In which type of air cleaner the filter element is saturated with oil?
a) thermostatic control of air cleaner
b) light dusty type air cleaner
c) heavy-duty type air cleaner
d) both thermostatic and light dusty type
c
11. Which among the following is the correct air movement in a heavy-duty type air cleaner?
a) Inlet – circumferential gap – oil bath – filter
b) Inlet – filter – oil both – the circumferential gap
c) Inlet -oil bath – filter – the circumferential gap
d) Circumferential gap- inlet -oil bath – filter
a
12. Which among the following is used to mesh with the cleaning material in a light-duty type of air filter?
a) Mesh screen
b) Plastic
c) Polymer coating
d) Sheet metal
a
13. Which are the parts that get damaged when dirt enters the crankcase?
a) Heavy-duty type air cleaner
b) Light duty type air cleaner
c) Thermostatic control of air cleaner
d) Heavy-duty type air cleaner and Light duty type air cleaner
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems.
To practice all areas of Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems Questions and Answers – Petrol Engine Fuel Supply System – Fuel Pumps» Next - Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems Questions and Answers – Petrol Engine Fuel Supply System – Simple Carburettor 
