1. Which of the following as shown below avoids the direct contact of the positive and negative plate in a lithium-ion battery?
a) Electrolyte
b) Separator
c) Load
d) Rectifier
b
2. Which is the electrolyte used in Li-ion battery?
a) Lead dioxide
b) Lithium-based gel
c) Sulfur dioxide
d) Cobalt
b
3. Which of the following statement is true for the movement of electrons concerning the direction of current?
a) Same as the direction of current
b) Opposite direction of current
c) Does not depend on the direction of current
d) No movement of electrons
b
4. Which is the material used to as anode in a lithium-ion battery?
a) Brass foil coated with graphite
b) Aluminum foil coated with graphite
c) Copper foil coated with graphite
d) Stainless steel coated with graphite
b
5. Which of the following is not a disadvantage of a lithium-ion battery?
a) Complex to manufacture
b) Sophisticated chargers
c) More expensive
d) High energy density
d
6. Which of the following is formed at the graphite electrode during the charging process of a battery when the lithium-ion move through the separator?
a) Water
b) Graphite
c) Lithium hydroxide
d) Lithium carbide
d
7. What is the range of specific energy in Watt-hour per kg in a lithium-ion battery?
a) 0-50
b) 100-265
c) 50-60
d) 60-100
b
8. Which is the material used as a cathode in a lithium-ion battery?
a) Zinc foils coated lithium metal oxide
b) Brass foil coated with graphite metal oxide
c) Aluminum foils coated with graphite metal oxide
d) Copper foils coated with lithium metal oxide
c
9. What is the maximum storage temperature in degree centigrade of a Li-ion battery?
a) 30
b) 50
c) 60
d) 40
c
10. Which of the following is not an advantage of Lithium-ion battery?
a) High specific energy density
b) More expensive
c) Reliability
d) Lower self-discharge rate
b
11. Which of the following material is used as separator material in Lithium-ion battery?
a) Brass
b) Metal sheet
c) Paper
d) Plastic
d
12. Which of the following circuit is used for cooling of the lithium-ion battery?
a) Air conditioning
b) Heater circuit
c) Ignition circuit
d) EGR circuit
a
13. What is the maximum operating temperature in degree centigrade above which the lithium-ion battery should not be operated?
a) 10
b) 20
c) 30
d) 40
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems.
To practice all areas of Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems Questions and Answers – Battery Troubles» Next - Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems Questions and Answers – Starting System 
