1. What is the thickness in mm of the overlay which is provided on the bearings?
a) 0.01-0.02
b) 0.03-0.04
c) 0.05-0.06
d) 0.07-0.08
a
2. How is one of the bearings made to prevent the crankshaft from moving to and fro in the endwise direction?
a) Magnetic bearing
b) Fluid bearing
c) Ball-bearing
d) Thrust bearing
d
3. Which of the following is provided to cushion the journal and to increase the life of the bearing?
a) Direction control valve
b) Overlay
c) Position control valve
d) Compressor
b
4. Which is the bearing material which is being used in the modern engine?
a) Brass
b) Cast iron
c) Aluminum
d) Chromium
c
5. Which of the following helps the engine bearing by supporting the operating loads with minimum friction?
a) Good fuel-air ratio for combustion
b) Vibration dampers
c) Clutch
d) Lubricant
d
6. Which one of the following is not an engine bearing requirement?
a) Corrosion resistance
b) Long life
c) Should multiple the variation of the shafts
d) Should have score  resistance
c
7. Which are the types of material used in Babbit type bearing material?
a) Lead with a small quantity of copper and antimony
b) Steal with a small quantity of zinc and tin
c) Zinc with a small quantity of lead and copper
d) Silver with a small quantity of brass and aluminum
a
8. Which of the following material is usually used in the backing to provide support against the shaft load?
a) Lead
b) Copper
c) Tim
d) Steel
d
9. Which of the following more when compared to others in a medium-duty sealed powder bearings?
a) Conformability
b) Embeddability
c) Corrosion
d) Fatigue strength
d
10. What is the value of antimony present in a Babbit metal?
a) 5.5
b) 7.5
c) 6.5
d)  8.5
b
11. Why are the holes provided in a main bearing as shown below?
a) To look attractive
b) For lubrication
c) Release the pressure
d) Vibration damping
b
12. What is the value of silicon and copper in an extra heavy-duty type sealed power bearing?
a) 11% silicon and 1% copper
b) 1% silicon and 11% copper
c) 5% silicon and 10% copper
d) 10% silicon and 5% copper
a
13. Which of the following when decreased reduces the bearing clearance?
a) Number of shims
b) Number of valves
c) Displacement of the piston
d) Number of spark plugs
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems.
To practice all areas of Automotive Engine Design for Entrance exams,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems Questions and Answers – Engine Components – Crankshafts» Next - Automotive Engine Auxiliary Systems Questions and Answers – Valve Timing 
