1. What is the primary function of the cylinder in the engine?
a) To hold the crankshaft
b) To guide the camshaft
c) To guide the piston
d) To hold the valves
c
2. What type of cooling system is used in an early single-cylinder engine with cooling fins around it?
a) Coolant cooled
b) Air-cooled
c) Oil cooled
d) Water-cooled
b
3. In modern engines, the cylinder is made of what material?
a) Cast iron
b) Tin
c) Steel
d) Aluminum
d
4. Why liners are used in the cylinder?
a) Having liner only with better-material can be more economical
b) Having liner results in low cost
c) Having liner only with better-material can be less economical
d) Having liner results in high cost
a
5. Usually, Cylinder liner is made up of what material?
a) Tungsten
b) Cast iron alloy
c) Aluminum alloy
d) Mild steel
b
6. Which of the mentioned below is a type of liner?
a) Cold liner
b) Hot liner
c) Dry liner
d) Cast iron liner
c
7. A cylinder has clearance length is 0.3mm and cylinder diameter is 150mm, what is the clearance volume?
a) 45mm3
b) 0.45mm3
c) 0.55mm3
d) 0.045mm3
a
                                                         =0.3 × 150
                                                         = 45mm3
8. In the below-shown cross-section of the cylinder diagram, what is the portion name?
a) Coolant
b) Liner
c) Air filter
d) Water jacket
d
9. Which of the following are the two types of Cylinder liners?
a) Cold and Hot liners
b) Mild and Soft liners
c) Dry and Wet liners
d) Tungsten and Titanium Liners
c
10. Which of the mentioned below is not the desired property of the cylinder and cylinder liner?
a) It should be corrosion resistant
b) It should not be wear-resistant
c) It should withstand thermal stresses
d) It should be strong enough to withstand high gas pressure
b
11. Why engine block has Cylinder for piston moment, why not cube or cuboidal?
a) The cylinder has good aesthetic
b) Stresses are equally distributed in the cylinder
c) Design rule
d) The cylinder doesn’t wear
b
12. In which type of cylinder liner cooling is more efficient?
a) Dry liner
b) Hot liner
c) Wet liner
d) Steel liner
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Automotive Engine Components Design.
To practice all areas of Automotive Engine Components Design,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Automotive Engine Components Design Questions and Answers – Internal Combustion Engine» Next - Automotive Engine Components Design Questions and Answers – IC Engine – Bore and Length of Cylinder 
