1. With the allowable stress method, which conditions are computed?
a) Most severe loading conditions and inelastic stresses
b) Most severe loading conditions and elastic stresses
c) Feeble loading conditions and inelastic stresses
d) Feeble loading conditions and elastic stresses
b
2. Allowable stress method considers which type of loadings?
a) Simultaneous
b) Non- simultaneous
c) Mixture of both
d) Only dead loads
a
3. Live load and roof live loads are represented by the same symbol.
State whether the above written statement is true or false.
a) True
b) False
a
4. Which of the following simultaneous loading conditions are not necessary to be considered for the most severe situations:-
a) D + F
b) D + H + F + L + T
c) D + H + F
d) 0.6D + W + H
c
5. With which loads are impact effects considered?
a) Rain
b) Snow
c) Live
d) Fluids
c
6. Which of the following load do not vary appreciably with time?
a) Snow
b) Dead
c) Rain
d) Wind
b
7. If a full dead load is not acting during an earthquake or a severe wind storm, then chances of overturning of building will:-
a) Decrease
b) Increase
c) Remain same
d) Depend upon case
b
8. When two or more loads are acting on a structure in addition to dead load, then ASCE permits the loads other than dead loads to be multiplied by a factor of (provided the result is not less than that produced by dead load and the load causing greatest effect)
a) 0.60
b) 0.65
c) 0.70
d) 0.75
d
9. In the above question, using factor of 0.75 is:-
a) Compulsory
b) Compulsory in some case
c) Depends upon the engineer
d) Depends upon loads
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Structural Analysis.
To practice all areas of Structural Analysis, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Structural Analysis Questions and Answers – Live Load Reduction» Next - Structural Analysis Questions and Answers – Loading Conditions for Strength Design 
