Ue = work done by all external forces
Ui = internal work or strain energy
Δ = final elongation of bar
Θ = final angular deflection
1. Principle of virtual work was developed by mohr.
State whether the above sentence is true or false.
a) True
b) False
b
2. What is the relation between work done by external loads and work done by internal loads.
a) They are unequal
b) They are equal
c) Can’t say
d) Depends upon load
b
3. Dummy unit load method and virtual work method are two different approaches.
State whether the above statement is true or false.
a) True
b) False
b
4. To apply this method it is :-
a) Compulsory for external and internal forces to be in equilibrium
b) Not compulsory for external and internal forces to be in equilibrium
c) Compulsory for external and internal forces to be in equilibrium in higher loads
d) Compulsory for external and internal forces to be in equilibrium in lesser loads
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
5. This method can be applied when:-
a) Elastic limit is exceeded
b) Elastic limit is not exceeded
c) Doesn’t depend  upon elastic limit
d) Can’t say
b
6. This method can be applied when:-
a) Supports are moving
b) Supports are not moving
c) Can be applied in both case
d) Can be applied in neither cases
b
7. What is the shape of load-deformation curve for a linear elastic member?
a) Straight line with constant slope
b) Straight line with varying slope
c) Curve
d) Sine wave
a
8. What is the shape of load-deformation curve for a non-linear elastic member?
a) Straight line with constant slope
b) Straight line with varying slope
c) Curve
d) Circle
c
9. What is the relation between work done and complementary work done?
a) They are always equal
b) They are always equal
c) Can’t say
d) Depends upon loading
c
10. Conservation of energy will be applicable only when:-
a) Static load is applied
b) Dynamic load is applied
c) Can be anything
d) Large load is applied
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Structural Analysis.
To practice all areas of Structural Analysis, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Structural Analysis Questions and Answers – External Work and Strain Energy» Next - Structural Analysis Questions and Answers – Method of Virtual Work: Trusses and Castigliano’s Theorem 
