1. Approximate analysis is done on a :-
a) Determinate structures
b) Indeterminate structures
c) Determinate and indeterminate structures
d) Depends upon load applied
a
2. Exact analysis is referred to which type of analysis?
a) Statically determinate analysis
b) Statically indeterminate analysis
c) Doesn’t depend upon determinacy
d) Depends upon load applied
b
3. How many assumptions do we have to make to solve an indeterminate truss?
a) Always 3
b) Always 2
c) Equal to its degree of indeterminacy
d) One less than its degree of indeterminacy
c
4. What is a reasonable assumption if diagonals of a truss system are long and slender?
a) They can’t carry tensile force
b) They can’t carry compressive force
c) They can’t carry force
d) They can’t carry large force
b
5. If a long and slender diagonal is appearing to carry compressive load, then it is assumed that:-
a) It carries a tensile load
b) It carries a compressive load
c) It carries no load
d) It carries large load
c
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. If both diagonal members are constructed from channels, then the how much load will be carried by compressive member?
a) 0
b) 1/4 th of panel shear
c) Half of panel shear
d) 3/4 th of panel shear
c
7. In which case is only members within a localized region of structure are considered?
a) When disturbance within a member causes a lot of disturbances in outside region
b) When disturbance within a member causes little of disturbances in outside region
c) When lower loads are applied
d) When larger loads are applied
b
8. Points of inflection can be considered as:-
a) Pin support
b) Roller support
c) Link support
d) Pin
d
9. If a beam is supported by fixed support at both its end then point of inflection will lie at what distance from end points (L is length of beam).
a) 0
b) 0.11L
c) 0.21L
d) 0.31L
c
10. If a beam is supported by pin supports at both its end then point of inflection will lie at what distance from end points (L is length of beam).
a) 0
b) 0.11L
c) 0.21L
d) 0.31L
a
11. In actual cases, at what distance are point of inflections assumed from end points (L is length of beam).
a) 0
b) 0.1L
c) 0.2L
d) 0.3L
b
12. In cases of girders, It is assumed that it:-
a) Does support axial force
b) Does not support axial force
c) Does not support shear force
d) Does not support axial and shear force
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Structural Analysis.
To practice all areas of Structural Analysis, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Structural Analysis Questions and Answers – Influence Line Diagram – Numericals» Next - Structural Analysis Questions and Answers – Portal Frames and Trusses 
