1. For the validity of principle of superposition, materials should behave in which manner?
a) linear-elastic
b) non-linear-elastic
c) Non-linear- inelastic
d) Linear- inelastic
d
2. If in planar system, X parts/members are there with Y no. of forces, then condition for statically determinacy is:-
a) Y < 3X
b) Y > 3X
c) Y = 3X
d) None of the mentioned
c
3. If Y > 3X (X and Y are from the above question) then, the system is:-
a) Statically indeterminate
b) Statically determinate
c) Can’t say
d) Depends on other conditions
a
4. If in a planar system, only 2 reaction forces are acting, then the system is:-
a) Essentially unstable
b) Essentially stable
c) Can’t say
d) None of the mentioned
a
5. If all the reactions acting on a planar system are concurrent in nature, then the system is:-
a) Can’t say
b) Essentially stable
c) Essentially unstable
d) None of the mentioned
c
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. If 4 reactions are acting on a beam, then the system is:-
a) Unstable & indeterminate
b) Stable & indeterminate
c) Stable & determinate
d) Can’t say
d
7. If a system has more equations of equilibrium than no. of forces, then the system is:-
a) Improperly constrained
b) Partially constrained
c) Stable
d) Solvable
b
8. How many cases out of the following are improperly constrained?
Parallel forces, concurrent forces, perpendicular forces, only moment
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4
b
9. If a structure has total 10 joints, then what should be the minimum no. of joints in which equilibrium equations should be concurrently satisfied for stability?
a) 7
b) 8
c) 9
d) 10
d
In the following questions, j represent no. of joints and r represents no. of external forces.
10. If a structure has 2j – r no. of members, then it will be:-
a) stable
b) unstable
c) depends upon structure
d) depends upon magnitude of load
c
11. If a truss consists of a non-triangular element, then it will essentially be unstable.
State whether the above statement is true or false.
a) true
b) false
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Structural Analysis.
To practice all areas of Structural Analysis, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Structural Analysis Questions and Answers – Idealized Structure» Next - Structural Analysis Questions and Answers – Beams & Frames Static Indeterminacy 
