1. The change in slope between any two points on the elastic curve equals the area of M/EI diagram between both end points of beam.
State whether the above statement is true or false.
a) True
b) False
b
2. θB/A refers to:-
a) Angle of tangent at B measured wrt the tangent at A
b) Angle of tangent at A measured wrt the tangent at B
c) Angle of tangent at A measured wrt x axis
d) Angle of tangent at A measured wrt y axis
a
3. If area of M/EI diagram between points A and B is –ve, then angle from tangent A to tangent B will be measured :-
a) Counterclockwise
b) Clockwise
c) Can be anything
d) Angle will be 0
b
4. What is the dimension of θB/A if area is measured in SI unit:-
a) Degree
b) Radian
c) Dimensionless
d) Can be any of them
b
5. The vertical deviation is measured along (if first point is A and second point is B):-
a) A vertical line passing through centre of A and B
b) A vertical line passing through A
c) A vertical line passing through B
d) A vertical line passing through either of the end points
b
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. The vertical deviation of tangent at point say A on the elastic curve with respect to the tangent extended from another point  say B equals the “moment” of the area under the M/EI diagram between the two points about point :-
a) A
b) B
c) Between A and B
d) One of the end points
a
7. –ve M/EI area means tangent at A is:-
a) Higher than that extended from B
b) Lower than that extended from B
c) Can’t say
d) Both are equal
b
8. In general tA/B implies:-
a) Vertical deflection of tangent at B wrt that at A
b) Vertical deflection of tangent at A wrt that at B
c) Vertical deflection of extended tangent at B wrt tangent at A
d) Vertical deflection of tangent at A wrt extended tangent at B
d
9.  TA/B and tB/A are:-
a) Always equal
b) Always unequal
c) Can’t say
d) One of them is zero
c
10. –ve moment bends the beam convex down.
State whether the above sentence is true or false.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Structural Analysis.
To practice all areas of Structural Analysis, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Structural Analysis Questions and Answers – The Double Integration Method» Next - Structural Analysis Questions and Answers – Moment-Area Theorems – 2 
