1. If influence area contributing to a particular load increases, then what happens to the possibility of having full design load on each square meter of area?
a) Increases
b) Decreases
c) Doesn’t affect
d) Depends on case
b
2. Building codes usually permit reduction in live load when small areas are concerned.
State whether this statement is true or false
a) True
b) False
b
3. Reduction factors given in Section 4.8 of ASCE 7-02 & in Section 1607.9.1 of IBC-2003 are:-
a) Different
b) Same
c) Vary in some cases
d) There is no reduction factor in Section 4.8 of ASCE 7-02
b
4. What is the minimum limit of influence area (in sq. ft) till which live loads can be reduced?
a) 100
b) 200
c) 300
d) 400
d
Join [email protected]
5. In the case of a structural member supporting more than one floor with load exceeding 100psf., what is the maximum permitted reduction %?
a) 10
b) 15
c) 20
d) 25
c
6. Loads used to obtain column design forces and to obtain beam design forces are:-
a) Necessarily same
b) Necessarily different
c) Most likely same
d) Most likely different
d
7. When column supports the top floor of a building, then live load reduction is:-
a) Permitted
b) Not permitted
c) Depends upon type of beam
d) Depends upon amount of load
b
8. Live load element factor KLL remains constant for all types of structure.
State whether this statement is true or false.
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Structural Analysis.
To practice all areas of Structural Analysis, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Structural Analysis Questions and Answers – Tributary Areas» Next - Structural Analysis Questions and Answers – Loading Conditions for Allowable Stress Design 
