1. Shell and Tube Heat Exchangers are not commonly used in industries because of their inability to handle high pressure and temperature.
a) True
b) False
b
2. Which type of Shell and tube heat exchanger does the below temperature plot correctly represent?
a) Single Pass Shell and Tube
b) 1-2 Shell and Tube
c) 2-4 Shell and Tube
d) 3-6 Shell and Tube
c
3. Consider we have a 1-2 Shell and Tube Heat Exchanger with tube diameter 20mm and shell diameter 55mm, we have two fluids A&B, A is supply water and B is distilled water, we desire to have their flow rates as 15m3/s and 21m3/s respectively. Which fluid pass arrangement would be best suited for the HE?
a) Parallel flow with A in tube and B in the shell side
b) Counterflow with B in tube and A in the shell side
c) Counterflow with A in tube and B in the shell side
d) Parallel flow with B in tube and A in the shell side
b
4. How many times do we have to calculate for Pressure drop in a Shell and Tube Heat Exchanger?
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4
b
5. In an operation where we want to heat a stream of liquid by Steam, we have the option to use extended fins. Then which of the following is best suited?
a) Steam on the shell side with the fins on outer surface of the tube
b) Steam on the tube side with the fins on outer surface of the tube
c) Steam on the shell side with the fins on inner surface of the tube
d) Steam on the tube side with the fins on inner surface of the tube
a
6. What can we infer from the name 2-4 Shell and Tube Heat Exchanger?
a) Partition of the Shell into two and four passes of the tube
b) Partition of the Shell into two three passes of the tube
c) One Shell and Four pass of the tube
d) Partition of the Shell into three four passes of the tube
a
7. When we want to heat a stream of liquid by Steam, we usually keep steam on the shell side and fluid in the tube.
a) True
b) False
a
8. When a fluid is used in a Shell and Tube heat exchanger, which one of the following is not true?
a) If the fluid is gas then the gas side heat transfer coefficient is the lowest
b) Extended fins are used on the shell side to increase the Heat Transfer coefficient
c) Baffles are provided only to work as fins
d) Fins increase necessary heat transfer area
c
9. Which of the following statements are incorrect about Baffles in a Shell and Tube HE?
a) Baffles provide mechanical support to the tubes and help them to be in position
b) Baffles streamline the motion of the fluid in Shell side and hence decreases the turbulence
c) The most common type of baffle is segmental baffles
d) Baffles increase the overall heat transfer coefficient on the shell side
b
10. For the calculation of Overall Heat transfer coefficient UD, for given fouling factor Rf and Dirt Factor Rd, which one of the following expressions do we use?
a) (UC-1 + Rd-1+ Rf)-1
b) (UC-1 + Rd+ Rf)-1
c) (UC-1 + Rd+ Rf-1)
d) (UC-1 + Rd + Rf)
b
11. Recognize the given Shell and Tube Heat Exchanger.
a) 1-2 Shell and Tube
b) 2-3 Shell and Tube
c) 2-4 Shell and Tube
d) 3-6 Shell and Tube
d
12. Which one of the following figures correctly represents counter-flow operation of a shell and tube heat exchanger with the specific heat of fluid in the shell side more than the fluid in the tube side?
a) 
b) 
c) 
d) 
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Heat Transfer Operations.
To practice all areas of Heat Transfer Operations, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Heat Transfer Operations Questions and Answers – HT Equipment – Double Pipe Heat Exchangers» Next - Heat Transfer Operations Questions and Answers – HT Equipment – Combined Heat Transfer by Conduction and Convection 
