1. Regarding one dimensional heat transfer, choose the correct statement.
a) Steady – f (x), Unsteady – f (x, t)
b) Steady – f (x, t), Unsteady – f (x)
c) Steady – f (x, y, t), Unsteady – f (x)
d) Steady – f (y, z), Unsteady – f (y)
a
2. Which statement is true regarding steady state condition?
a) There is a variation in temperature in the course of time
b) Heat exchange is constant
c) It is a function of space and time coordinates
d) Internal energy of the system changes
b
3. Which of the following is an example of steady state heat transfer?
a) Boilers and turbines
b) Cooling of I.C engine
c) Chilling effect of cold wind on a warm body
d) Electric bulb cools down by the surrounding atmosphere
d
4. Heat transfer in a long, hollow cylinder which is maintained at uniform but different temperatures on its inner and outer surfaces may be assumed to be taking place in which direction?
a) Axial only
b) Unpredictable
c) Radial only
d) No heat transfer takes place
c
5. Heat transfer takes place according to which law?
a) Newton’s law of cooling
b) Second law of thermodynamics
c) Newton’s second law of motion
d) First law of thermodynamics
b
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Heat transfer takes place in liquids and gases is essentially due to
a) Radiation
b) Conduction
c) Convection
d) Conduction as well as convection
c
7. The appropriate rate equation for convective heat transfer between a surface and adjacent fluid is prescribed by
a) Newton’s first law
b) Wein’s displacement law
c) Kirchhoff’s law
d) Newton’s law of cooling
d
8. Identify the wrong statement
a) The process of heat transfer is an irreversible process
b) For heat exchange, a temperature gradient must exist
c) A material medium is not necessary for heat transmission
d) Heat flow doesn’t depend on temperature
d
9. During a cold winter season, a person prefers to sit near a fire. Which of the following modes of heat transfer provides him the maximum heat?
a) Conduction from the fire
b) If it is near the fire, convection sounds good
c) Convection and radiation together
d) Radiation will provide quick warmth
d
10. Most unsteady heat flow occurs
a) Through the walls of the refrigerator
b) During annealing of castings
c) Through the walls of the furnace
d) Through lagged pipe carrying steam
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Heat Transfer.
To practice all areas of Heat Transfer, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Heat Transfer Questions and Answers – Modes of Heat Transfer» Next - Heat Transfer Questions and Answers – Fourier Equation 
