1. Which is a full size structure employed in the actual engineering design?
a) Proton
b) Prototype
c) Electron
d) Neutron
b
2. Which term refers to the theory and art of predicting prototype conditions from model observations?
a) Nusselt number
b) Dimensional homogeneity
c) Thermal boundary layer
d) Similitude
d
3. The results obtained from experiments on models can be applied to prototype only if a complete similarity exists between the model and prototype and for that the two systems may be
(i) Geometrically similar
(ii) Kinematically similar
(iii) Dynamically similar
Identify the correct statements
a) i and ii
b) ii and iii
c) i, ii and iii
d) i and iii
c
4. Geometrically similarity prescribes that the ratio of the corresponding linear dimensions of the two systems are
a) Unity
b) Same
c) Never same
d) May be twice
b
5. Thermal similarity refers to the comparison of two systems made on the basis of their
a) Temperature
b) Specific heat
c) Heat flux
d) Length
d
6. The comparison of two systems made on the basis of their temperature, specific heat and heat flu is known as
a) Dynamic similarity
b) Kinematic similarity
c) Thermal similarity
d) Geometrical similarity
c
7. The similarity of masses and forces of the corresponding particles of flow is known as
a) Kinematic similarity
b) Dynamic similarity
c) Geometrical similarity
d) Thermal similarity
b
8. The similarity of motion is known as
a) Thermal similarity
b) Dynamic similarity
c) Geometrical similarity
d) Kinematic similarity
d
9. The similarity of shape and form is known as
a) Geometrical similarity
b) Thermal similarity
c) Geometrical similarity
d) Kinematic similarity
a
10. A similarity in thermal quantities is achieved when
a) Nusselt number is same for both the fields
b) Nusselt number is different for both the fields
c) Prandtl number is same for both the fields
d) Prandtl number is different for both the fields
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Heat Transfer.
To practice all areas of Heat Transfer, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Heat Transfer Questions and Answers – Buckingham’s Pi- Method» Next - Heat Transfer Questions and Answers – Dimensional Analysis- Advantages and Limitations 
