1. Plate type heat exchangers which are made of thin plates, can handle high pressure and temperature difference.
a) True
b) False
b
2. Which of the following is not a Plate – Type heat exchanger?
a) Welded
b) Gasketed
c) Agitated
d) Brazed
c
3. Why do we use counter-flow operation on gasketed type Heat Exchanger?
a) It provides better ease of operation
b) Applied pressure difference required is low
c) A larger and uniform temperature difference is achieved
d) It reduces corrosion
c
4. Which of the following is not a property of Plate type heat exchangers?
a) Even though the heat exchanger has low hydraulic diameter, it can be readily and easily cleaned
b) Leakage is never a concern in these heat exchangers
c) It provides a very large surface area for heat transfer
d) The net weight required is always less than its equivalent Shell and tube type heat exchanger
b
5. Plate type heat exchangers have less surface area as compared to a similar Shell and Tube heat exchanger. A Shell and Tube Heat Exchanger of equivalent area weigh six-seven times less than a Plate Type heat exchanger.
a) True
b) False
b
6. Which of the following is a correct statement about Plate -Fin heat exchanger?
a) Fins are irrelevant as it already provides a very large surface area
b) It can be regarded as a Compact Heat Exchanger as it has a high heat transfer surface to volume ratio
c) The cost of plate-fin HE are relatively less compared to other conventional HE available in market
d) Even though it has fins, the plates can be opened and easily cleaned
b
7. How is a Plate-type HE better than a Shell and tube HE, one of the following is not correct.
a) Plate type heat exchangers have much higher heat transfer area than Shell and tube ones
b) Thermal stress is higher in Plate type HE
c) Vibrations due to flow and noise are comparatively absent in Plate type HE
d) Entry impingement problem of shell and tube is absent in Plate type HE
b
8. What limitations does Gaskets pose on Gasketed type HE?
a) Limits its use only to non-corrosive fluids, as the gaskets get corroded
b) It leads to leakage and does not provide proper separation
c) One directional flow is the only possibility
d) Reduces necessary heat transfer area causing decreased Heat coefficients
a
9. Which of the following is not a property of Platular Heat Exchanger?
a) It is welded from all the sides and hence a type of welded plate-type heat exchanger
b) The absence of gaskets ensures no leakage and allows the use of toxic fluids
c) It can handle four liquids at a time
d) It has high maintenance and cleaning expenses
d
10. Recognize the following Plate-Type heat exchanger.
a) Panel Coil heat exchanger
b) Lamella heat exchanger
c) Welded heat exchanger
d) Brazed heat exchanger
b
11. Which one of the following working of Gasketed Plate type heat exchanger is best suitable for maximum heat transfer to take place?
a) 
b) 
c) 
d) 
a
12. Which one of the following heat exchanger is best suited for high turbulent flow, is very compact and can handle foul liquids?
a) Gasketed Heat Exchanger
b) Brazed Plate type Heat Exchanger
c) Platular Heat Exchanger
d) Lamella Heat Exchanger
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Heat Transfer Operations.
To practice all areas of Heat Transfer Operations, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Heat Transfer Operations Questions and Answers – HT Equipment – Pipe Wall Temperature and Flow in Pipe Profiles» Next - Heat Transfer Operations Questions and Answers – HT Equipment – Double Pipe Heat Exchangers 
