1. Which of the following have a continuous spectrum?
a) Solids
b) Liquids
c) Gases
d) Solids and liquids
d
2. Which of the following is/are known as selective absorbers?
a) Solids
b) Liquids
c) Gases and vapors
d) Vapors
c
3. Which layers participated in the process of thermal radiation through solids and liquids?
a) 1 micron to 1 mm thick
b) 2 micron to 2 mm thick
c) 1 micron to 0.5 mm thick
d) 2 micron to 4.57 mm thick
a
4. Some of the gases have low emissive power and absorptivity. They are considered practically diathermanous. Which of the following option is true?
a) Ammonia
b) Helium
c) Carbon-dioxide
d) Methane
b
5. Consider an enclosure formed by three surfaces having the following values of shape factors, emissivities and temperatures
Surface 1 i.e. curved cylindrical has an emissivity 0.75 and temperature 800 K
Surface 2 i.e. closing disc has an emissivity 0.8 and temperature 700 K
Surface 3 i.e. closing disc has an emissivity 0.8 and temperature 700 K
The closing flat discs are 25 mm in diameter and they have interspacing distance equal to 100 mm. If the shape factor between these two identical discs is 0.05, calculate the net rate of radiant heat flow from the curve surface to each of the closing end surface
a) 1.561 W
b) 2.561 W
c) 3.561 W
d) 4.561 W
c
6. Consider a beam of monochromatic radiation at wavelength λ that enters a layer of absorbing gas. As the beam passes through the gas layer, its intensity
a) Decreases
b) Increases
c) Become twice
d) Remains same
a
7. When a gas or vapor is in the process of oxidation and combustion, it is called as
a) Oxidation
b) Flame
c) Reduction
d) Combustion
b
8. The monochromatic absorption coefficient depends upon
(i) Temperature
(ii) Time
(iii) Pressure
(iv) Wavelength
Identify the correct option
a) i, ii and iv
b) ii, iii and iv
c) i and ii
d) i, iii and iv
d
9. Which one of the following is not extremely inert to thermal radiation?
a) Orgon
b) Oxygen
c) Methane
d) Nitrogen
c
10. Consider a beam of monochromatic radiation at wavelength λ that enters a layer of absorbing gas. As the beam passes through the gas layer, its intensity is given by
a) d I λ X = – K λ I λ X d x
b) d I λ X = – 2 K λ I λ X d x
c) d I λ X = – 3 K λ I λ X d x
d) d I λ X = – 4 K λ I λ X d x
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Heat Transfer.
To practice all areas of Heat Transfer, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Heat Transfer Questions and Answers – Adiabatic and Reradiating Surfaces» Next - Heat Transfer Questions and Answers – Types of Flow 
