1. Radiation heat transfer is characterized by
a) Due to bulk fluid motion, there is a transport of energy
b) Thermal energy transfer as vibrational energy in the lattice structure of the material
c) Movement of discrete packets of energy as electromagnetic waves
d) There is circulation of fluid by buoyancy effects
c
2. Which is true regarding radiation?
a) Radiation travels only in medium
b) Radiation travels without any medium
c) Radiation travels in medium but sometimes without medium
d) Radiation travels in medium or without medium
d
3. Radiation exchange occurs in
a) Solid
b) Vacuum
c) Liquid
d) Gas
b
4. Energy released by a radiating surface is not continuous but is in the form of successive and separate packets of energy called
a) Photons
b) Protons
c) Electrons
d) Neutrons
a
5. The electromagnetic waves are emitted as a result of
(i) Vibrational movement
(ii) Rotational movement
(iii)Atomic or sub-atomic particles comprising the matter
Identify the correct statement
a) i and ii
b) ii and iii
c) i and iii
d) i, ii and iii
d
6. Thermal radiations occur in the portion of electromagnetic spectrum between the wavelengths
a) 10 -2 to 10 -4 micron
b) 10 -1 to 10 -2 micron
c) 0.1 to 10 2 micron
d) 10 -2 micron onwards
c
7. A perfectly black body
a) Absorbs all the incident radiation
b) Allow all the incident radiation to pass through it
c) Reflects all the incident radiation
d) Has its surface coated with lamp black or graphite
a
8. What is the wavelength band for cosmic rays?
a) Up to 45 * 10 -7 micron meter
b) Up to 23 * 10 -7 micron meter
c) Up to 19 * 10 -7 micron meter
d) Up to 4 * 10 -7 micron meter
d
9. For a prescribed wavelength a black body radiates how much energy at the temperature of body?
a) Maximum
b) Minimum
c) 20%
d) 50%
a
10. Radiation emitted by a black surface is a function of wavelength and temperature but is independent of direction.
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Heat Transfer.
To practice all areas of Heat Transfer, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Heat Transfer Questions and Answers – Absorptivity» Next - Heat Transfer Questions and Answers – Spectral and Spatial Energy Distribution 
