1. Gases cannot be used in Double pipe heat exchangers because of their high flow rates.
a) True
b) False
b
2. If we know the output and input temperatures of the heat exchanging fluids, then which one of the following calculation is not required to determine the number of bends in tube for the equipment?
a) Pressure drop in the equipment
b) Overall heat transfer coefficients
c) Total heat transfer area required
d) Pipe length
a
3. Which of the following has the maximum Log mean temperature difference for a Double Pipe Heat Exchanger?
a) Counter-flow
b) Parallel Flow
c) Cross Flow
d) Split Flow
a
4. How many types of flow operations exist for a double pipe heat exchanger?
a) 1
b) 2
c) 3
d) 4
b
5. Which one of the following is the determining reason for heat transfer in double pipe HE?
a) Conduction
b) Natural Convection
c) Forced Convection
d) Radiation
c
6. Which one of these is not true when the steady state is reached by the heat exchanging fluids in a double pipe HE?
a) When the two liquids have same temperature
b) When their temperatures become stable
c) Wall temperature becomes constant
d) Rate of heat transfer becomes constant
a
7. We can use mean temperature difference too in place of LMTD if we can calculate it.
a) True
b) False
a
8. We can apply LMTD only when?
(i) There is no change in Specific heats
(ii) Overall heat transfer coefficient is constant
(iii) No heat loss
(iv) No pressure drop
a) (ii)(iii)(iv)
b) (i)(ii)(iii)
c) (ii)(iii)
d) (i)(ii)(iv)
b
9. The density of the fluids, its viscosity and the thermal conductivity (K) is measured at ______
a) LMTD
b) Mean temperature
c) Median of the temperature
d) Square mean of the temperature
b
10. Which one of the following is true about a hairpin used in double pipe HE?
a) It can handle high pressure drops
b) It cannot handle high pressure drops
c) It is very resistant to fouling
d) It is very expensive
a
11. To calculate the temperature difference in a double pipe heat exchanger, we use _____
a) LMTD
b) Mean temperature difference
c) Median of the temperature difference
d) Square mean of the temperature difference
a
12. In a double pipe heat exchanger, in the inner side fluid enters at 15℃ and leaves at 65℃. The annulus has steam at 1atm. What is the value of LMTD?
a) 39℃
b) 66.7℃
c) 70℃
d) 56.35℃
d
13. What do you understand by Rfo and Rfi?
a) Dirt factor and Fouling factor
b) Inner Tube outer surface fouling factor and inner surface fouling factor
c) Inner Tube outer surface fouling factor and inner surface fouling factor
d) Inner Tube outer surface fouling factor and Annulus tube inner surface fouling factor
b
14. What is the unit of Fouling factor (Rf) in S.I. system?
a) m2K/Pa
b) mK/Pa
c) m2K / W
d) mK/W
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Heat Transfer Operations.
To practice all areas of Heat Transfer Operations, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Heat Transfer Operations Questions and Answers – Double Pipe Heat Exchangers – Dirt Factor and Overall Heat Transfer Coefficients» Next - Heat Transfer Operations Questions and Answers – Double Pipe Heat Exchangers – Heat Transfer Coefficients Calculations 
