1. Climbing film evaporator can be used only as a single effect evaporator.
a) True
b) False
b
2. Which one of the following statement is incorrect about the factors leads to single effect operation of climbing film evaporator?
a) When the vapour is contaminated and cannot be recycled
b) The feed is highly corrosive, requiring expensive construction materials
c) The liquid has low vapour pressure
d) The energy cost to produce the steam heating is low
c
3. Which one of the following statements is correct about the nucleate boiling phenomenon in climbing tube evaporators?
a) There is no nucleate boiling
b) There is nucleate boiling throughout
c) Nucleate boiling near the entrance but not later
d) Nucleate boiling near the exit and nowhere else
c
4. Climbing film evaporators are necessarily Long tube evaporators.
a) True
b) False
a
5. How does the fluid in climbing film evaporator rise in the tubes?
a) There is a pump at the bottom that pushes it
b) Pressure gradient is applied
c) The vapour produced then pushes the fluid upward
d) Temperature gradient causes convection that moves upward
c
6. Which one of the following is not a use of climbing tube evaporator?
a) Thermal desalination
b) Juice concentration
c) Pharmaceuticals
d) Feed-water purification
d
7. What is the pressure used for thermal desalination of water in climbing film evaporators?
a) Close to zero
b) Very high around 3-4atm
c) Atmospheric pressure
d) Just below 1atm
a
8. Why are food, pharmaceuticals and sensitive fluids used in climbing tube evaporators?
a) The pressure is very low
b) There is very less temperature gradient
c) The fluid is not exposed to high temperature for a long period of time
d) Its heated by natural convection
c
9. Which one of the following is not an advantage of climbing film evaporator?
a) Low residence time
b) High efficiency
c) Low temperature difference required
d) Low pressure operation
b
10. Climbing film evaporators are _________ falling film evaporators.
a) Better than
b) Have more efficiency than
c) Not as good as
d) Considered over
c
11. Recognize the correct flow direction in rising film evaporator.
a)  
b) 
c) 
d) 
b
12. Which one of the following is a Long tube evaporator?
a)  
b) 
c) 
d)  
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Heat Transfer Operations.
To practice all areas of Heat Transfer Operations, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Heat Transfer Operations Questions and Answers – Long Tube Vertical Evaporators» Next - Heat Transfer Operations Questions and Answers – Falling Film Evaporator 
