1. A transaction may not always complete its execution successfully. Such a transaction is termed
a) Aborted
b) Terminated
c) Closed
d) All of the mentioned
a
2. If an transaction is performed in a database and committed, the changes are taken to the previous state of transaction by
a) Flashback
b) Rollback
c) Both Flashback and Rollback
d) Cannot be done
d
3. Each modification done in database transaction are first recorded into the
a) Harddrive
b) Log
c) Disk
d) Datamart
b
4. When the transaction finishes the final statement the transaction enters into
a) Active state
b) Committed state
c) Partially committed state
d) Abort state
c
5. The name of the transaction file shall be provided by the operator and the file that contains the edited transactions ready for execution shall be called
a) Batch. Exe
b) Trans. Exe
c) Opt. Exe
d) Edit.Exe
c
6. Which of the following is an atomic sequence of database actions?
a) Transaction
b) Concurrency
c) Relations
d) All of the mentioned
a
7. If the state of the database no longer reflects a real state of the world that the database is supposed to capture, then such a state is called
a) Consistent state
b) Parallel state
c) Atomic state
d) Inconsistent state
d
8. _______ means that data used during the execution of a transaction cannot be used by a second transaction until the first one is completed.
a) Serializability
b) Atomicity
c) Isolation
d) Time stamping
c
9. DBMS periodically suspends all processing and synchronizes its files and journals through the use of
a) Checkpoint facility
b) Backup facility
c) Recovery manager
d) Database change log
a
10. Which of the following is not a state in transaction?
a) Active
b) Terminated
c) Aborted
d) Partially committed
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Database Management System.
To practice all areas of Database Management System, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Database Management System.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Database Questions and Answers – Storage Structure» Next - Database Questions and Answers – Querying database part 3 
