1. A collection of data designed to be used by different people is called a/an
a) Organization
b) Database
c) Relationship
d) Schema
b
2. Which of the following is the oldest database model?
a) Relational
b) Deductive
c) Physical
d) Network
d
3. Which of the following schemas does define a view or views of the database for particular users?
a) Internal schema
b) Conceptual schema
c) Physical schema
d) External schema
d
4. Which of the following is an attribute that can uniquely identify a row in a table?
a) Secondary key
b) Candidate key
c) Foreign key
d) Alternate key
b
5. Which of the following are the process of selecting the data storage and data access characteristics of the database?
a) Logical database design
b) Physical database design
c) Testing and performance tuning
d) Evaluation and selecting
b
6. Which of the following terms does refer to the correctness and completeness of the data in a database?
a) Data security
b) Data constraint
c) Data independence
d) Data integrity
d
7. The relationship between DEPARTMENT and EMPLOYEE is a
a) One-to-one relationship
b) One-to-many relationship
c) Many-to-many relationship
d) Many-to-one relationship
b
8. A table can be logically connected to another table by defining a
a) Super key
b) Candidate key
c) Primary key
d) Unique key
c
9. If the state of the database no longer reflects a real state of the world that the database is supposed to capture, then such a state is called
a) Consistent state
b) Parallel state
c) Durable state
d) Inconsistent state
d
10. Ensuring isolation property is the responsibility of the
a) Recovery-management component of the DBMS
b) Concurrency-control component of the DBMS
c) Transaction-management component of the DBMS
d) Buffer management component in DBMS
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Database Management System.
To practice all areas of Database Management System, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Database Management System.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Database Questions and Answers – Index Definition in SQL» Next - Database Questions and Answers – Selection Operation 
