1. ___________ is widely used today for protecting data in transit in a variety of applications such as data transfer on the Internet, and on cellular phone networks.
a) Encryption
b) Data mining
c) Internet Security
d) Architectural security
a
2. In a database where the encryption is applied the data is cannot be handled by the unauthorised user without
a) Encryption key
b) Decryption key
c) Primary key
d) Authorised key
b
3. Which of the following is not a property of good encryption technique?
a) Relatively simple for authorized users to encrypt and decrypt data
b) Decryption key is extremely difficult for an intruder to determine
c) Encryption depends on a parameter of the algorithm called the encryption key
d) None of the mentioned
d
4. In which of the following encryption key is used to encrypt and decrypt the data?
a) Public key
b) Private key
c) Symmetric key
d) Asymmetric key
c
5. Encryption of small values, such as identifiers or names, is made complicated by the possibility of __________
a) Dictionary attacks
b) Database attacks
c) Minor attacks
d) Random attacks
a
6. Which one of the following uses a 128bit round key to encrypt the data using XOR and use it in reverse to decrypt it?
a) Round key algorithm
b) Public key algorithm
c) Advanced Encryption Standard
d) Asymmetric key algorithm
c
7. Which of the following requires no password travel across the internet?
a) Readable system
b) Manipulation system
c) Challenge–response system
d) Response system
c
8.  Assymmetric Encryption: Why can a message encrypted with the Public Key only be decrypted with the receiver’s appropriate Private Key?
a) Not true, the message can also be decrypted with the Public Key
b) A so called “one way function with back door” is applied for the encryption
c) The Public Key contains a special function which is used to encrypt the message and which can only be reversed by the appropriate Private Key
d) The encrypted message contains the function for decryption which identifies the Private Key
b
9. Which is the largest disadvantage of symmetric Encryption?
a) More complex and therefore more time-consuming calculations
b) Problem of the secure transmission of the Secret Key
c) Less secure encryption function
d) Isn’t used any more
b
10. Which is the principle of the encryption using a key?
a) The key indicates which function is used for encryption. Thereby it is more difficult to decrypt an intercepted message as the function is unknown
b) The key contains the secret function for encryption including parameters. Only a password can activate the key
c) All functions are public, only the key is secret. It contains the parameters used for the encryption resp. decryption
d) The key prevents the user of having to reinstall the software at each change in technology or in the functions for encryption
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Database Management System.
To practice all areas of Database Management System, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Database Management System.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Database Questions and Answers – Application Security» Next - Database Questions and Answers – Physical Storage Media 
