1. Which schema object instructs Oracle to connect to a remotely access an object of a database?
a) Sequence
b) Remote link
c) Database link
d) Data link
d
2. DML changes are
a) Insert
b) Update
c) Create
d) Both Insert and Update
d
3. Which of the following object types below cannot be replicated?
a) Data
b) Trigger
c) View
d) Sequence
d
4. How to force a log switch?
a) By using ALTER SYSTEM LOG
b) By using ALTER SYSTEM SWITCH LOGFILE
c) By using ALTER SYSTEM SWITCH LOGS
d) By using ALTER SYS LOGFILES
b
5. In the following query, which expression is evaluated first?
SELECT id_number, (quantity - 100 / 0.15 - 35 * 20) FROM inventory
a) 100 / 0.15
b) quantity – 100
c) 35*20
d) 0.15-35
a
6. The ORDER BY clause can only be used in
a) SELECT queries
b) INSERT queries
c) GROUP BY queries
d) HAVING queries
a
FROM table_name
ORDER BY column_name,column_name ASC|DESC;.
7. Which of the following rule below are categories of an index?
a) Column and Functional
b) Multiple Column and functional
c) Column, Multiple Column and functional
d) None of the mentioned
a
8. What is the purpose of SMON background process?
a) Performs crash recovery when a failed instance starts up again
b) Performs recovery when a user process fails
c) Writes redo log entries to disk
d) None of the mentioned
a
9. Which of the following queries are legal?
a) SELECT deptno, count(deptno) FROM emp GROUP BY ename;
b) SELECT deptno, count(deptno), job FROM emp GROUP BY deptno;
c) SELECT deptno, avg(sal) FROM emp;
d) SELECT deptno, avg(sal) FROM emp GROUP BY deptno;
d
10. Which of the following queries displays the sum of all employee salaries for those employees not making commission, for each job, including only those sums greater than 2500?
a) select job, sum(sal) from emp where sum(sal) > 2500 and comm is null;
b) select job, sum(sal) from emp where comm is null group by job having sum(sal) > 2500;
c) select job, sum(sal) from emp where sum(sal) > 2500 and comm is null group by job;
d) select job, sum(sal) from emp group by job having sum(sal) > 2500 and comm is not null;
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Database Management System.
To practice all areas of Database Management System, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Database Management System.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Database Questions and Answers – Application Architectures» Next - Database Questions and Answers – Application Performance 
