1. An approach to website design with the emphasis on converting visitors to outcomes required by the owner is referred to as:
a) Web usability
b) Persuasion
c) Web accessibility
d) None of the mentioned
b
2. A method of modelling and describing user tasks for an interactive application is referred to as:
a) Customer journey
b) Primary persona
c) Use case
d) Web design persona
c
3. Information architecture influences:
a) Answer choice
b) Site structure
c) Labeling
d) Navigation design
b
4. Also known as schematics, a way of illustrating the layout of an individual webpage is a:
a) Wireframe
b) Sitemap
c) Card sorting
d) Blueprint
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
5. A graphical or text depiction of the relationship between different groups of content on a website is referred to as a:
a) Wireframe
b) Blueprint
c) Sitemap
d) Card sorting
c
6. Blueprints are intended to:
a) Prototype of the screen layout showing navigation and main design elements
b) Show the grouping of pages and user journeys
c) Indicate the structure of a site during site design and as a user feature
d) Prototype typical customer journeys or clickstreams through a website
c
7. Storyboards are intended to:
a) Indicate the structure of a site during site design and as a user feature
b) Prototype of the screen layout showing navigation and main design elements
c) Integrate consistently available components on the webpage (e.g. navigation, search boxes)
d) Prototype typical customer journeys or click streams through a website
d
8. Which of the following occupies boot record of hard and floppy disks and activated during computer startup?
a) Worm
b) Boot sector virus
c) Macro virus
d) Virus
b
9. A graphical or text depiction of the relationship between different groups of content on a website is a:
a) Page template
b) Wireframe
c) Site map
d) Cascading style sheet (CSS)
c
10. Which of the following is a description of information organization schemes?
a) Minimising the number of clicks needed to access relevant content
b) Providing an overall design to a site consistent with the positioning of the products and services
c) The menu options chosen to group and categorize information
d) Providing specific content and services appropriate to different audience members
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Database Management System.
To practice all areas of Database Assessment Questions, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Database Management System.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Database Questions and Answers – Database Design Process» Next - Database Questions and Answers – Web Fundamentals 
