1. Which level of RAID refers to disk mirroring with block striping?
a)  RAID level 1
b)  RAID level 2
c)  RAID level 0
d)  RAID level 3
a
2. A unit of storage that can store one or more records in a hash file organization is denoted as
a)  Buckets
b)  Disk pages
c)  Blocks
d)  Nodes
a
3. The file organization which allows us to read records that would satisfy the join condition by using one block read is
a)  Heap file organization
b)  Sequential file organization
c)  Clustering file organization
d)  Hash file organization
c
4. What are the correct features of a distributed database?
a)   Is always connected to the internet
b)   Always requires more than three machines
c)   Users see the data in one global schema.
d)   Have to specify the physical location of the data when an update is done
c
5. Each tablespace in an Oracle database consists of one or more files called
a) Files
b) name space
c) datafiles
d) PFILE
c
6. The management information system (MIS) structure with one main computer system is called a
a) Hierarchical MIS structure
b) Distributed MIS structure
c) Centralized MIS structure
d) Decentralized MIS structure
c
7. A top-to-bottom relationship among the items in a database is established by a
a) Hierarchical schema
b) Network schema
c) Relational schema
d) All of the mentioned
a
8. Choose the RDBMS which supports full fledged client server application development
a) dBase V
b) Oracle 7.1
c) FoxPro 2.1
d) Ingress
b
9. One approach to standardization storing of data?
a) MIS
b) Structured programming
c) CODASYL specification
d) None of the mentioned
c
10. The highest  level in the hierarchy of data organization is called
a) Data bank
b) Data base
c) Data file
d) Data record
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Database Management System.
To practice all areas of Database Management System, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Database Management System.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Database Questions and Answers – Tertiary Storage» Next - Database Questions and Answers – Organization of Records in Files 
