1. The database administrator who authorizes all the new users, modifies the database and takes grants privilege is
a) Super user
b) Administrator
c) Operator of operating system
d) All of the mentioned
d
2. Which of the following is a basic form of grant statement?
a)
   GRANT 'privilege list'
   ON 'relation name or view name'
   TO 'user/role list';
b)
   GRANT 'privilege list'
   ON 'user/role list'
   TO 'relation name or view name';
c)
   GRANT 'privilege list'
   TO 'user/role list'
d)
   GRANT 'privilege list'
   ON 'relation name or view name'
   ON 'user/role list';
a
  
3. Which of the following is used to provide privilege to only a particular attribute?
a) Grant select on employee to Amit
b) Grant update(budget) on department to Raj
c) Grant update(budget,salary,Rate) on department to Raj
d) Grant delete to Amit
b
4. Which of the following statement is used to remove the privilege from the user Amir?
a) Remove update on department from Amir
b) Revoke update on employee from Amir
c) Delete select on department from Raj
d) Grant update on employee from Amir
b
5. Which of the following is used to provide delete authorization to instructor?
a)
   CREATE ROLE instructor ;
   GRANT DELETE TO instructor;
b)
   CREATE ROLE instructor;
   GRANT SELECT ON takes
   TO instructor;
c)
   CREATE ROLE instructor;
   GRANT DELETE ON takes
   TO instructor;
d) All of the mentioned
c
6. Which of the following is true regarding views?
a) The user who creates a view cannot be given update authorization on a view without having update authorization on the relations used to define the view
b) The user who creates a view cannot be given update authorization on a view without having update authorization on the relations used to define the view
c) If a user creates a view on which no authorization can be granted, the system will allow the view creation request
d) A user who creates a view receives all privileges on that view
c
7. If we wish to grant a privilege and to allow the recipient to pass the privilege on to other users, we append the __________ clause to the appropriate grant command.
a) With grant
b) Grant user
c) Grant pass privelege
d) With grant option
d
8. In authorization graph, if DBA provides authorization to u1 which inturn gives to u2 which of the following is correct?
a) If DBA revokes authorization from u1 then u2 authorization is also revoked
b) If u1 revokes authorization from u2 then u2 authorization is revoked
c) If DBA & u1 revokes authorization from u1 then u2 authorization is also revoked
d) If u2 revokes authorization then u1 authorization is revoked
c
9. Which of the following is used to avoid cascading of authorizations from the user?
a) Granted by current role
b) Revoke select on department from Amit, Satoshi restrict;
c) Revoke grant option for select on department from Amit;
d) Revoke select on department from Amit, Satoshi cascade;
b
10. The granting and revoking of roles by the user may cause some confusions when that user role is revoked. To overcome the above situation
a) The privilege must be granted only by roles
b) The privilege is granted by roles and users
c) The user role cannot be removed once given
d) By restricting the user access to the roles
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Database Management System.
To practice all areas of Database Management System, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Database Management System.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Database Questions and Answers – SQL Data Types and Schemas» Next - Database Questions and Answers – Access SQL From a Programming Language 
