1. Two main measures for the efficiency of an algorithm are
a) Processor and memory
b) Complexity and capacity
c) Time and space
d) Data and space
c
2. The time factor when determining the efficiency of an algorithm is measured by
a) Counting microseconds
b) Counting the number of key operations
c) Counting the number of statements
d) Counting the kilobytes of algorithm
b
3. The space factor when determining the efficiency of an algorithm is measured by
a) Counting the maximum memory needed by the algorithm
b) Counting the minimum memory needed by the algorithm
c) Counting the average memory needed by the algorithm
d) Counting the maximum disk space needed by the algorithm
a
4. Which of the following case does not exist in complexity theory
a) Best case
b) Worst case
c) Average case
d) Null case
d
Join [email protected]
5. The Worst case occur in linear search algorithm when
a) Item is somewhere in the middle of the array
b) Item is not in the array at all
c) Item is the last element in the array
d) Item is the last element in the array or is not there at all
d
6. The Average case occur in linear search algorithm
a) When Item is somewhere in the middle of the array
b) When Item is not in the array at all
c) When Item is the last element in the array
d) When Item is the last element in the array or is not there at all
a
7. The complexity of the average case of an algorithm is
a) Much more complicated to analyze than that of worst case
b) Much more simpler to analyze than that of worst case
c) Sometimes more complicated and some other times simpler than that of worst case
d) None of the mentioned
a
8. The complexity of a linear search algorithm is
a) O(n)
b) O(log n)
c) O(n2)
d) O(n log n)
a
9. The complexity of Binary search algorithm is
a) O(n)
b) O(log )
c) O(n2)
d) O(n log n)
b
10. The complexity of Bubble sort algorithm is
a) O(n)
b) O(log n)
c) O(n2)
d) O(n log n)
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Database Management System.
To practice all areas of Database Management System, here is complete set on 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers on Database Management System.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Database Questions and Answers – Selection Operation» Next - Database Questions and Answers – Join Operations 
