1. Which of the following is incorrect about Ellipse?
a) Eccentricity is less than 1
b) Mathematical equation is X2 /a2 + Y2/b2 = 1
c) If a plane is parallel to axis of cone cuts the cone then the section gives ellipse
d) The sum of the distances from two focuses and any point on the ellipse is constant
c
2. Which of the following constructions doesn’t use elliptical curves?
a) Cooling towers
b) Dams
c) Bridges
d) Man-holes
a
3. The line which passes through the focus and perpendicular to the major axis is ________
a) Minor axis
b) Latus rectum
c) Directrix
d) Tangent
b
4. Which of the following is the eccentricity for an ellipse?
a) 1
b) 3/2
c) 2/3
d) 5/2
c
5. Axes are called conjugate axes when they are parallel to the tangents drawn at their extremes.
a) True
b) False
a
6. Steps are given to draw an ellipse by loop of the thread method. Arrange the steps.
i.	Check whether the length of the thread is enough to touch the end of minor axis.
ii.	Draw two axes AB and CD intersecting at O. Locate the foci F1 and F2.
iii.	Move the pencil around the foci, maintaining an even tension in the thread throughout and obtain the ellipse.
iv.	Insert a pin at each focus-point and tie a piece of thread in the form of a loop around the pins.
a) i, ii, iii, iv
b) ii, iv, i, iii
c) iii, iv, i, ii
d) iv, i, ii, iii
b
7. Steps are given to draw an ellipse by trammel method. Arrange the steps.
i.	Place the trammel so that R is on the minor axis CD and Q on the major axis AB. Then P will be on the ellipse.
ii.	Draw two axes AB and CD intersecting each other at O.
iii.	By moving the trammel to new positions, always keeping R on CD and Q on AB, obtain other points and join those to get an ellipse.
iv.	Along the edge of a strip of paper which may be used as a trammel, mark PQ equal to half the minor axis and PR equal to half of major axis.
a) i, ii, iii, iv
b) ii, iv, i, iii
c) iii, iv, i, ii
d) iv, i, ii, iii
b
8. Steps are given to draw a normal and a tangent to the ellipse at a point Q on it. Arrange the steps.
i.	Draw a line ST through Q and perpendicular to NM.
ii.	ST is the required tangent.
iii.	Join Q with the foci F1 and F2.
iv.	Draw a line NM bisecting the angle between the lines drawn before which is normal.
a) i, ii, iii, iv
b) ii, iv, i, iii
c) iii, iv, i, ii
d) iv, i, ii, iii
c
9. Which of the following is not belonged to ellipse?
a) Latus rectum
b) Directrix
c) Major axis
d) Asymptotes
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Engineering Drawing.
To practice all areas of Engineering Drawing, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Engineering Drawing Questions and Answers – Drawing Tangents and Normals for Different Conditions of Circle – 2» Next - Engineering Drawing Questions and Answers – Construction of Ellipse – 2 
