1. Which of the following dimension is according to the ‘aligned system’ of dimensioning?
a) 40
b) 55
c) 25
d) 10
a
2. In dimensioning, the lines enclosing the dimension line are known as ____
a) Leader line
b) Dimension line
c) Extension line
d) Outline
c
3. When dimensioning the circle, the dimension line begins from the center of the circle.
a) True
b) False
a
4. While dimensioning a circle, the leader line and the dimension line are drawn at which angle with respect to each other?
a) 45˚
b) 30˚
c) 0˚ or 180˚
d) 90˚
c
5. While dimensioning holes, slots, etc. how would their number be specified?
a) Number written on the dimension line
b) Number is written of the leader line
c) Number is written on the corner of page
d) Number is written on the side of the hole or slot
a
6. What is the height if the dimension figures written on the dimension line?
a) 7mm to 9mm
b) 2mm to 3mm
c) 6mm to 8mm
d) 3mm to 5mm
d
7. While dimensioning, what should always be written before a point accompanied by a figure if the value of the figure is less than unity?
a) 1
b) 0
c) 2
d) 6
b
8. In unidirectional system, the figures are written along the dimension line.
a) True
b) False
b
9. In which system of dimensioning the figures can read from the bottom only?
a) Aligned system
b) Unidirectional system
c) Nonaligned multidirectional system
d) Parallel system
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Engineering Drawing.
To practice basic questions and answers on all areas of Engineering Drawing, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Engineering Drawing Questions and Answers – System of Dimensioning – 1» Next - Engineering Drawing Questions and Answers – Types of Dimensioning – 1 
