1. Which of the following is false regarding sketching?
a) Initial ideas are represented in sketch form
b) Sketching are made in correct proportions
c) Sketching is done with the use of instruments
d) Sketching need not have a scale
c
2. To sketch an object, which of the following should be done thoroughly?
a) Need to collect scales and higher grade instruments
b) Scaling should be decided perfectly
c) All the features of the object should be observed clearly
d) Need to know what instruments are needed
c
3. Which of the following is wrong to do in sketching?
a) Using no proper scale
b) Using no proper instruments
c) Sketching it as small as possible
d) Sketching with proper proportions
c
4. Which of the following increases proficiency in sketching?
a) Using proper instruments
b) Using a better scale
c) Using appropriate dimensions
d) Having constant practice
d
5. Which of the following pencil grade is suitable for sketching?
a) 9H
b) 10H
c) 6H
d) H
d
6. What should be the minimum distance between the hand and the pencil tip while drawing a horizontal line?
a) 5mm
b) 100mm
c) 40mm
d) 80mm
c
7. Scale can be used during sketching free-hand.
a) True
b) False
b
8. Trammel method is used in sketching free-hand to draw _______
a) Horizontal lines
b) Vertical lines
c) Oblique lines
d) Large-radii arcs
d
9. Appropriate scaling should be used in free-hand sketching.
a) True
b) False
b
10. Which of the following is not used in free-hand sketching?
a) Cross-sectioned graph paper
b) Soft rubber-eraser
c) Soft-grade pencil
d) Hard-grade pencil
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Engineering Drawing.
To practice all areas of Engineering Drawing, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Engineering Drawing questions and Answers – Multi-View Projections» Next - Engineering Drawing questions and Answers – Pictorial Sketching 
