1. How orthographic sketching is started after analyzing the object?
a) By drawing the proportionate outlines of the object
b) By blocking the front, top, and side views of the object
c) By drawing the required curves of the object
d) By detailing the object
b
2. For blocking the front, top, and side views of the object, which of the following is not required?
a) Height
b) Width
c) Chamfer
d) Depth
c
3. In orthographic sketching, the center of holes is represented by _______
a) Receding construction lines
b) Thick lines
c) Construction lines
d) Dark lines
c
4. Hidden lines in orthographic sketches are represented by?
a) Dotted lines
b) Dashed lines
c) Thin straight lines
d) Very light thick lines
b
5. For improving the quality of the orthographic sketch which of the following can be used?
a) A scale
b) A compass
c) A square grid paper
d) A protractor
c
6. Sketching the three views out of six multi-views of an object can give us a general view of the object.
a) True
b) False
a
7. Arrange the following stages of drawing a circle in an orthographic sketch in an order.
i. Connect all the dots with a single stroke.
ii. Draw the light horizontal and vertical lines from the center of the circle.
iii. Lightly mark the radius on each line
a) i, ii, iii
b) iii, ii, i
c) ii, iii, i
d) iii, i, ii
c
8. Drawing orthographic view is easier and efficient that pictorial sketching.
a) True
b) False
a
9. In the orthographic views to maintain the correct proportions and orientations of the views, which of the following is the correct way to follow?
a) Draw the top, front and side views closer
b) Extend the construction lines
c) Make the blockings closer
d) Use the scale
b
10. Center lines in orthographic sketches are represented by?
a) Dotted lines
b) Short and long dashed lines
c) Thin straight lines
d) Very light thick lines
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Engineering Drawing.
To practice all areas of Engineering Drawing, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Engineering Drawing questions and Answers – Pictorial Sketching» Next - Engineering Drawing Questions and Answers – Different Types of Lines – 1 
