1. Which of the following dimensioning is correct?
a)
b) 
c) 
d) 
d
2. Find the incorrect dimensioning rule from the following.
a) No need for unnecessary dimensions
b) Dimension lines should not be crossed
c) Dimensioning can be done anywhere in the drawing
d) Hidden lines need no dimensions
c
3. Which of the following is incorrect for the unidirectional method of dimensioning?
a) Horizontal dimension lines are not broken to place dimensions
b) Non-horizontal lines are broken in the middle for placing dimensions
c) Convenient to read dimensions from the right-hand side of the drawing
d) Preferably used on a large drawing
c
4. Construction lines are continuous thick lines.
a) True
b) False
b
5. Which of the following is incorrect for Lettering of an engineering drawing?
a) Upper-case letters are mainly used for lettering
b) Lettering type A is preferred
c) Inclined letters are right inclined with 75° slope with horizontal
d) Guidelines are drawn to obtain a uniform height of letters and numerals
b
6. Which of the following is true for single stroke inclined lettering?
a) Left inclined with slope 15°
b) Right inclined with slope 15°
c) Right inclined with slope 75°
d) Left inclined with slope -75°
c
7. Match the following.
Line type
Application
A) Continuous thin line 
i) Limits of interrupted views and sections
B) Continuous thin freehand line 
ii) Visible edges and outlines
C) Continuous thick line 
iii) Shows permissible of surface treatment
D) Dashed thick line
iv) Projection, dimensioning and short center
a) A-ii, B-i, C-iv, D-iii
b) A-i, B-iv, C-ii, D-iii
c) A-iv, B-i, C-ii, D-iii
d) A-iii, B-i, C-ii, D-iv
c
8. Which of the following is true in case of Lettering type A, where d is the thickness of the line and h is the height of capitals?
a) d = h/12
b) d = h/13
c) d = h/14
d) d = h/10
c
9. Which of the following is true in case of Lettering type B, where d, is the thickness of the line and h, is the height of capitals?
a) d= h/12
b) d=h/13
c) d=h/14
d) d=h/10
d
10. Which of the following statement is incorrect in case of aligned dimensioning method?
a) Mostly aligned system of is suggested dimensioning
b) Dimension is placed in such a way that they are read from bottom or right-hand edge
c) The dimension should be placed within 30° zone of the vertical center
d) The dimension should be placed in the middle or on the top of the dimension line
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Engineering Drawing.
To practice all areas of Engineering Drawing, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Engineering Drawing Questions and Answers – Terminology of Dimensioning – 2» Next - Engineering Drawing Questions and Answers – Lines, Lettering and Dimensioning – 2 
