1. In which part of the plant, does photosynthesis takes place?
a) Peroxisomes
b) Glyoxisomes
c) Quantosomes
d) Lysosomes
c
2. Which pigment protects the photosystem from ultraviolet radiation?
a) Chlorophyll a
b) Chlorophyll b
c) Carotenoids
d) Anthocyanin
c
3. What is the name of the book written by Jan Ingenhousz, which explains the basis of photosynthesis?
a) Experiments upon Fruits
b) Experiments upon Vegetables
c) Experiments upon Plants
d) Experiments upon Animals
b
4. Photosystem II happens before photosystem I.
a) True
b) False
a
Join [email protected]
5. Which of the following amino acid is helpful in the synthesis of plastoquinone?
a) Valine
b) Isoleucine
c) Leucine
d) Tyrosine
d
6. What is the other name of Plastoquinol – plastocyanin reductase?
a) Cytochrome b4f complex
b) Cytochrome b5f complex
c) Cytochrome b6f complex
d) Cytochrome b5g complex
c
7. What is the maximum wavelength of light photosystem II can absorb?
a) 680nm
b) 450nm
c) 700nm
d) 230nm
a
8. Which of the following Vitamins act as an electron acceptor in light dependent photosynthesis?
a) Vitamin A
b) Vitamin D
c) Vitamin E
d) Vitamin K
d
9. During photosynthesis, how many chlorophyll molecules are required to produce one oxygen molecule?
a) 1000
b) 2000
c) 2500
d) 3000
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Cell Biology.
To practice all areas of Cell Biology for Campus Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Cell Biology Questions and Answers – Chloroplast Structure and Function – Chloroplast and Photosynthetic Pigments» Next - Cell Biology Questions and Answers – Chloroplast Function – Photophosphorylation 
