1. What is the key role of Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans?
a) Extracellular matrix interaction
b) Protection to cell
c) Production of proteins
d) Digesting the toxins
a
2. Which of the following helps in the attachment of cell to the extracellular matrix?
a) Cell-matrix fusion complex
b) Cell-matrix adhesion complex
c) Cell-matrix substitution complex
d) Cell-matrix addition complex
b
3. How many exons do the syndecan have?
a) 3
b) 4
c) 5
d) 6
c
4. What is the range of molecular weight of laminins?
a) 400 to 900 kDa
b) 400 to 900 Da
c) 500 to 1000 kDa
d) 500 to 1000 Da
a
5. What is the key role of fibroblasts?
a) Protecting the cell
b) Producing extracellular matrix
c) Producing lytic enzymes
d) Providing structure
b
6. The movement of cell with respect to rigidity is called durotaxis.
a) True
b) False
a
7. Hemidesmosomes are present in keratinocytes.
a) True
b) False
a
8. What is the use of matrix-bound nanovesicles?
a) Enzyme technology
b) Tissue engineering
c) Biofuel production
d) Pharma product production
b
9. Which genetic disorder is associated with accumulation of proteoglycans?
a) Polysaccharidoses
b) Mucomonosaccharidoses
c) Mucopolysaccharidoses
d) Monosaccharidoses
c
10. Which of the following disease is associated with the disruption of hemidesmosomes?
a) Atherosclerosis
b) Epidermolysis bullosa
c) Myocardial infarction
d) Zellweger syndrome
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Cell Biology.
To practice all areas of Cell Biology for Interviews, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Cell Biology Questions and Answers – Chloroplast Function – CO2 Fixation and Carbohydrate Synthesis in CAM Plants» Next - Cell Biology Questions and Answers – Cell Interactions – Cells with Other Cells 
