1. What we use for impedance matching in RF amplifiers?
a) RC coupling
b) Transformer coupling
c) Direct coupling
d) RF coupling
b
2. Neutralization cancels unwanted feedback by bypassing the feedback to the neutral or ground plane.
a) True
b) False
b
3. In a receiver, distortion can occur in ________
a) Mixer
b) Detector
c) IF amplifiers
d) Either mixer or detector or IF amplifiers
d
4. How we limit the response of a receiver to a weak signal?
a) by the AGC
b) by the noise that is generated in the receiver
c) by the dynamic range of the receiver
d) by the type of detector circuit being used
b
5. When aliasing will take place?
a) Sampling signals less than Nyquist Rate
b) Sampling signals more than Nyquist Rate
c) Sampling signals equal to Nyquist Rate
d) Sampling signals at a rate which is twice of Nyquist Rate
a
6. A resonant circuit is a simple form of bandpass filter.
a) True
b) False
a
7. Which statement is true for high level amplitude modulation?
a) all RF amplifiers are of class A
b) all RF amplifiers can be nonlinear
c) minimum RF power is required
d) maximum RF power is required
b
8. Which statement is true for low level amplitude modulation?
a) all RF amplifiers are of class A
b) all RF amplifiers can be linear
c) minimum RF power is required
d) maximum RF power is required
b
9. Which two networks can be used for impedance matching?
a) pi network and T network
b) pi network and bridge network
c) bridge network and T network
d) pi network and omega network
a
10. Which statement is true about frequency multipliers?
a) they are essentially balanced modulators
b) they are essentially class C amplifiers
c) they are essentially class AB amplifiers
d) they are essentially mixers
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analog Communications.
To practice  all areas of Analog Communications, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analog Communications Questions and Answers – SSB with Large Carrier» Next - Analog Communications Questions and Answers – Types of Frequency Modulation 
