1. Why a helical antenna is used for satellite tracking?
a) because of its circular polarization
b) because of its broad bandwidth
c) because of its low bandwidth
d) because of rectangular polarization
a
2. Which one of the following noise becomes of great importance at high frequencies?
a) flicker noise
b) shot noise
c) impulse noise
d) transit-time noise
d
3. Which one of the following statement is false?
a) High Frequency mixers are generally noisier
b) Voltage of impulse noise is independent of bandwidth
c) Thermal noise is not dependent on frequency
d) Flicker noise occurs at low frequency
b
4. Which of broad classifications of noise are most difficult to treat?
a) noise generated in the receiver
b) noise generated in the transmitter
c) external noise
d) internal noise
a
5. What points must be important to remember, when we deal with random noise calculations?
a) all calculations are based on peak to peak values
b) calculations are based on quantised values
c) calculations are based on average values
d) calculations are based on RMS values
d
6. Which of the following statement is true?
a) Random noise power is inversely proportional to bandwidth
b) Flicker noise occurs at high frequency
c) Noise mixers are caused by inadequate image frequency rejection
d) A random voltage across a resistance cannot be calculated
c
7. Which of the following statement is false?
a) Modulation is used to reduce the bandwidth
b) Modulation is used to separate different transmissions
c) Modulation is used to allow the use of practical antennas
d) Modulation is used to ensure that wave is transmitted over long distances
a
8. Which of the steps is not included in the process of reception?
a) encoding
b) decoding
c) demodulating
d) filtering
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Analog Communications.
To practice all areas of Analog Communications, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Analog Communications Questions and Answers – Practical Aspects of Sampling» Next - Analog Communications Questions and Answers – Noise for DSB-SC 
