1. What are modes of heat transfer in evaporators?
a) Conduction and convention
b) Conduction and radiation
c) Radiation and convention
d) Conduction, convention, radiation
a
2. What controls the overall heat transfer coefficient in falling film evaporators?
a) Film thickness
b) Velocity
c) Liquid properties
d) Film thickness, velocity, liquid properties
d
3. What is the cause of convection heat transfer in evaporators?
a) Convection is heat transfer by neutrons
b) Convection is heat transfer by mass motion of a heat source
c) Convection is mass transfer by mass motion of a fluid
d) Convection is heat transfer by mass motion of a fluid
d
4. What is conduction?
a) Conduction is heat transfer by means of molecular agitation
b) Conduction is mass transfer by means of molecular agitation
c) Conduction is heat transfer by means of electron agitation
d) Conduction is heat transfer by means of atom agitation
a
5. What is evaporation?
a) Process of substance in a liquid state changing to a gaseous state
b) Process of substance in a solid state changing to a gaseous state
c) Process of substance in a liquid state changing to a solid state
d) Process of substance in a gaseous state changing to a liquid state
a
6. Which of the following statements about rate of evaporationare correct?
Statement 1: Quantity of heat required to evaporate each kg of water.
Statement 2: Maximum allowable temperature of the liquid,
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
b
7. What are the principle functions of evaporator?
a) Heat exchanger and separator
b) Heat exchanger
c) Heat exchanger
d) Evaporate
a
8. What is meant by heat transfer coefficient?
a) The heat transfer coefficient is the heat transferred per unit volume per kelvin
b) The heat transfer coefficient is the heat transferred per unit area per kelvin
c) The heat transfer coefficient is the heat transferred per unit volume per Celsius
d) The heat transfer coefficient is the heat transferred per unit area per Celsius
b
9. How do you increase heat transfer coefficient?
a) By increasing Reynolds number
b) By decreasing Reynolds number
c) By increasing velocity
d) By increasing Reynolds number and velocity
d
10. What factors affect heat transfer coefficient?
a) Viscosity, density, specific heat
b) Viscosity
c) Density
d) Specific heat
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all exam questions on Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Drying Equipments» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Single and Multiple Effect Evaporators 
