1. How are crystals classified?
a) According to the place of origin
b) According to the position of the unit cells
c) According to the symmetry of the unit cells
d) According to the purity of the unit cells
c
2. Are these statements about the Lattice points true?
Statement 1: It is a point in a crystal with specific arrangement of atoms.
Statement 2: A primitive unit cell contains more than one lattice point.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
a
3. What is crystallography?
a) Description of arrangement of atoms
b) Description of the purity of crystals
c) Description of the sign language
d) Description of the crystals history
a
4. What is crystal basis?
a) Disposition of the atoms around each lattice point
b) Description of the purity of crystals
c) Description of arrangement of atoms
d) Description of the crystals history
a
5. What is the most common crystal structure?
a) Face-centered cubic and square packed structures
b) Face-centered cubic and hexagonal close-packed structures
c) Square packed structures and hexagonal close-packed structures
d) Square packed structures and parallelogram packed structure
a
6. Is Diamond A Crystal?
a) True
b) False
a
7. What is the strongest crystal structure?
a) Diamond
b) Cubic boron nitride
c) Silicon carbide
d) Graphite
a
8. Who discovered crystal structure?
a) Max von Laue
b) Erasmus Jacobs
c) Nicholas-Jacques Conte
d) A.L. Lavoisier
a
9. What are Miller indices?
a) Set of three numbers used to indicate the position of a face of a crystal
b) Set of four numbers used to indicate the position of a face of a crystal
c) Set of five numbers used to indicate the position of a face of a crystal
d) Set of six numbers used to indicate the position of a face of a crystal
a
10. Is honeycomb lattice a Bravais lattice?
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Batch Distillation» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Principles of Crystallization 
