1. What are the three functional sections present in evaporator?
a) Heat exchanger, evaporating section
b) Heat exchanger, separator
c) Separator, evaporating section
d) Heat exchanger, evaporating section, separator
d
2. What are the advantages of multiple effect evaporators over single effect evaporator?
a) Suitable for large scale operation
b) Suitable for continuous operation
c) Maximize the energy input required for evaporating
d) Suitable for large scale and for continuous operation
d
3. Who invented the multiple-effect evaporator?
a) Norbert Rillieux
b) Justus von Liebig
c) Nils Wallerius
d) Rudolf Clausius
a
4. Are these statements about the feeding mechanism of evaporatortrue?
Statement 1: In forward feed, the most concentrated liquids will occur in the last effect.
Statement 2: In forward feed, the liquid is pumped from one effect to the next against the pressure drops.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
a
5. Who discovered evaporation?
a) Norbert Rillieux
b) Justus von Liebig
c) Nils Wallerius
d) Rudolf Clausius
c
6. What is the steam economy of single effect evaporator?
a) 0.8
b) 1.3
c) 10
d) 5.6
a
7. What are the different modes of feed in multiple effect evaporators?
a) Forward feed arrangement
b) Backward feed arrangement
c) Forward feed arrangement and backward feed arrangement
d) Perpendicular feed arrangement
c
8. Where is the feed introduced in climbing film evaporator?
a) Bottom
b) Top
c) Middle
d) Anywhere
a
9. How to increase the economy of multi effect evaporator?
a) Decrease the usage of steam
b) Increase the steam capacity
c) Reuse the latent heat of the water vapor
d) Reuse the latent heat of the liquid feed
a
10. Is evaporation and boiling the same?
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Heat Transfer in Evaporators» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Evaporation – Boiling Point Elevation 
