1. What is the alternative name for stripping?
a) Gas absorption
b) Gas desorption
c) Adsorption
d) Liquid desorption
b
2. What are types of absorption?
a) Physical absorption
b) Chemical absorption
c) Physical absorption and chemical absorption
d) Physical absorption, chemical absorption and microbial absorption
a
3. What is reactive absorption?
a) Chemical absorption
b) Physical absorption
c) Microbial absorption
d) Ion absorption
a
4. Who invented the absorption refrigerator?
a) Albert Einstein
b) Ferdinand Carre
c) Robert Wilhelm Bunsen
d) Schuyler Skaats Wheeler
a
5. What is the principle of absorption spectroscopy?
a) Bound atoms in the ground state can absorb light of a certain wavelength
b) Free atoms in the ground state can absorb light of a certain wavelength
c) Bound atoms in the excited state can absorb light of a certain wavelength
d) Free atoms in the ground state can absorb radiation energy of a certain wavelength
b
6. Which of the following factors that affect the selection of absorbent?
a) Viscosity should be low
b) Viscosity should be high
c) Low pressure drops
d) Low pressure drops and viscosity should be low
d
7. Which of the following is not an example for absorption?
a) Reaction of oxygen by fermentation broths
b) Removal of carbon dioxide from water-gas by absorption in water or in solutions of alkalis or amines
c) Reaction of hydrogen by petroleum fractions in processes to remove sulphur as hydrogen sulphide.
d) Liquid ammonium in air
d
8. Which of the following statements about chemical absorption are correct?
Statement 1: Chemical reaction between the absorbed and the absorbing substances.
Statement 2: Depends upon the stoichiometry of the reaction.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
b
9. What is law behind absorption?
a) Nernst’s distribution law
b) Henry’s law
c) Raoult’s law
d) Dalton’s law
a
10. Which of the following statements about physical absorption are correct?
Statement 1: Example for physical absorption is the absorption of carbon dioxide into water.
Statement 2: Polar interactions between water and the molecules of the solid play an important role in physical absorption.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Absorption Equipments» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Gas Liquid Equilibrium 
