1. What is distillation reflux ratio?
a) Ratio between the boil up rate and the take-off rate
b) Product of boil up rate and the take-off rate
c) Sum of boil up rate and the take-off rate
d) Ratio between the take-off rateand boil up rate
a
2. Are these statements about the binary distillation true?
Statement 1: Binary distillation is a common separation technique used in chemical process industries.
Statement 2: During this process, the mixture of components is separated by their phases.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
b
3. What factors affect distillation?
a) Solubility
b) Relative volatility
c) Surface area
d) Solubility, relative volatility and surface area
d
4. Which of the following is explained by using McCabe-Thiele plot?
a) Distillation
b) Crystallization
c) Molecular separation
d) Freezing
a
5. What is Q in McCabe Thiele method?
a) Mole fraction of liquid in the feed
b) Concentration
c) Viscosity
d) Temperature
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Can Murphree efficiency be greater than 100?
a) True
b) False
a
7. What are the limitations of McCabe Thiele method?
a) Cannot analyze mixtures containing more than 2 components
b) Cannot analyze freeze dry product
c) Cannot analyze mixtures at high temperature
d) Cannot analyze mixtures at low temperature
a
8. What does high reflux ratio mean?
a) Higher purity of the distillate
b) Lower purity of the distillate
c) Collection rate will be higher
d) Does not depend on purity and collection rate
a
9. Which of the following trays are used in distillation?
a) Bubble cap tray, sieve deck tray
b) Bubble cap tray, pore sieve tray
c) Sieve deck tray, pore sieve tray
d) Bubble cap tray, multi-flow tray
a
10. Which of the following shape represents the number of theoretical stages in McCabe-Thiele plot?
a) Vertical line
b) Circle
c) Triangle
d) Square
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Distillation – Partial Pressure» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Steam Distillation 
