1. What are the applications of steam distillation?
a) Extract the inorganic compounds
b) To clean the equipment
c) Extract and isolate essential oils
d) To purify drinking water
c
2. What is the advantage of steam distillation?
a) Reduces decomposition of temperature-sensitive compounds
b) Reduces decomposition of inorganic compounds
c) Increases the decomposition of temperature-sensitive compounds
d) Increases the decomposition of inorganic compounds
a
3. Who invented steam distillation?
a) Avicenna
b) Charles Chamberland
c) Nicolas Appert
d) Clarence Birdseye
a
4. Is steam distillation used to isolate limonene?
a) True
b) False
a
5. Which of the following statements about steam distillation are correct?
Statement 1: It cannot be applied under low pressure.
Statement 2: Used in isolation of organic compounds.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
a
6. How to extract oil from cinnamon?
a) Steam distillation
b) Hydro distillation
c) Fractional distillation
d) Boiling
a
7. How long is steam distillation takes place for lavender?
a) 2 hours
b) 3 hours
c) 4 hours
d) 5 hours
a
8. What is still in distillation terminology?
a) It is the apparatus to be used for distillation
b) It is the liquid that is collected in collection flask
c) It is the end product obtained in distillation
d) It is the liquid injected during distillation process
a
9. What are variants of the steam distillation process?
a) Dry steam distillation
b) Hydro-distillation
c) Direct steam distillation
d) Dry steam distillation, direct steam distillation and hydro-distillation
d
10. Which of the following is not true of steam distillation?
a) Very long extraction times
b) High energy consumption
c) No need for subsequent separation steps
d) Very short extraction times
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Distillation of Binary Mixtures» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Batch Distillation 
