1. What happens when supersaturated solution is cooled down?
a) Solid crystals will dissolve into the water
b) Solid crystals remain as it is in water
c) Solid crystals will grow in bigger size
d) Solid crystals will shrink into smaller size
a
2. What is supersaturation?
a) Has a higher vapor pressure than that of vapor pressure of that compound
b) Has a lower vapor pressure than that of vapor pressure of that compound
c) Has equal pressure similar to vapor pressure of that compound
d) Does not depend on vapor pressure of that compound
a
3. What is the principle of supersaturation in vapor phase?
a) Poynting effect
b) Gibbs–Thomson effect and Poynting effect
c) Kelvin equation and Gibbs–Thomson effect
d) Kelvin equation, Gibbs–Thomson effect and Poynting effect
d
4. Which of the industry uses the In vivo supersaturation phenomenon?
a) Fashion industry
b) Pharma industry
c) Food industry
d) Cement industry
b
5. How can supersaturated solution used in marine ecologist?
a) To study the activity of organisms
b) Tostudy the concentration of water
c) To study the patterns of the organisms
d) To detect the populations adaption
a
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. What is the other name for super-cooling?
a) Undercooling
b) Overcooling
c) Cooling
d) Super cooling
a
7. What is the first step in crystallization?
a) Nucleation
b) Cooling
c) Super-cooling
d) Pre-crystallization
a
8. What is classical nucleation theory?
a) To study the kinetics of nucleation
b) To study the nucleation statists
c) To study the concentration of nucleation
d) To study the nucleation temperature
a
9. Which of the following statements about seed crystal are correct?
Statement 1: Seed crystal provides a nucleation site.
Statement 2: The recrystallization is done by seed crystal.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
b
10. What affects crystal growth?
a) Temperature
b) Pressure
c) Evaporation
d) Evaporation, pressure and temperature
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice  all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations for online Quizzes,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Principles of Crystallization» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Mechanism of Crystallization 
