1. What is meant by crystallization?
a) Concentration of atoms into a highly structured form
b) Solidification of atoms into a highly structured form
c) Solidification of solution
d) Concentration of solution
b
2. When is supersaturation attained?
a) When the solvent contains more solute
b) When the solute contains more solvent
c) When the solvent contains less solute
d) When the solute contains less solvent
a
3. Which of the following is crystallization?
a) Solid-solid separation
b) Solid-liquid separation
c) solid-gas separation
d) Liquid- gas separation
b
4. What is purpose of recrystallization?
a) To purify chemicals
b) To dissolve crystals
c) Continuous process of crystallization
d) To clean crystallizers
a
5. How does concentration affect crystallization?
a) Increase in concentration leads to large crystals
b) Decrease in concentration leads to large crystals
c) Increase in concentration leads to small crystals
d) Decrease in concentration leads to small crystals
a
6. What are crystallization techniques?
a) Gradual cooling and diffusion
b) Diffusion and sharp cooling
c) Gradual cooling and sharp cooling
d) Sharp cooling and crystallization
a
7. Why is a supersaturated solution unstable?
a) Concentration is higher than equilibrium concentration
b) Concentration is lower than equilibrium concentration
c) Concentration is equal to equilibrium concentration
d) Contains impurities
a
8. What are factors affecting crystallization?
a) Degree of agglomeration
b) Crystal shape
c) Particle size distribution
d) Particle size distribution, crystal shape, degree of agglomeration
d
9. How does temperature affect nucleation?
a) When temperature increases the nucleation decreases
b) When temperature increases the nucleation increases
c) Nucleation is not dependent on Temperature
d) When temperature increases the nucleation increases and then decreases
a
10. Is crystallization a chemical change?
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Crystal Geometry» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Crystallization – Supersaturation 
