1. What is the main feature of circulating liquid crystallizer?
a) Efficiency is high
b) Supersaturation is created in a separate region
c) Low capital cost
d) Easy maintenance
b
2. What is evaporative crystallization?
a) Evaporation of the solvent
b) Separate components at higher temperature
c) Separate components at lower temperature
d) Mix components at higher temperature
a
3. Which of the manufacturing unit use melt crystallizers?
a) Ice creams
b) Automobiles
c) Salt preparation
d) Semiconductor
d
4. How are crystals in precipitation vessels?
a) Small size
b) Large size
c) Medium size
d) Very large size
a
5. Which of the following statements about crystallizers design are correct?
Statement 1:Selection of supersaturation generation method is not necessary.
Statement 2:Choice of batch or continuous operation is important.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
c
6. What is salting out process?
a) Addition of salt to precipitate the product from solvent
b) Addition of salt to precipitate the product from solution
c) Removal of salt to in the product
d) Removal of salt to precipitate the product from solution
b
7. How is product purity increased?
a) Boiling
b) Sweating
c) Freezing
d) Adding solute
b
8. What are the key parameters of rate of generation of supersaturation?
a) Cooling and addition rate
b) Evaporation and addition rate
c) Cooling and evaporation
d) Cooling, evaporation or addition rate
a
9. Which of the following statements about continuous crystallizers are correct?
Statement 1:These produce a consistent product.
Statement 2: More energy efficient.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
b
10. Is feed rate the only adjustable parameter in continuous crystallizers?
a) True
b) False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Crystal Growth» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Crystallization Equipment 
