1. What is alternative name for freeze drying?
a) Lyophilisation
b) Cold pasteurization
c) Irradiation
d) Liposuction
a
2. What is cryodesiccation?
a) Freeze drying
b) Cold pasteurization
c) Irradiation
d) Dehydration
a
3. During the primary drying phase in freeze drying, What is necessary to calculate amount of heat required?
a) By using latent heat of sublimation
b) By using latent heat of vapourization
c) By using enthaply
d) By using specific heat
a
4. Which of the following governs the process in secondary drying in freeze drying?
a) Latent heat of sublimation
b) Latent heat of vapourization
c) Enthaply
d) Adsorption isotherms
d
5. At what point the ice crystal formation takes place?
a) When the material is cooled below itstriple point
b) When the material is cooled below its freezing point
c) When the material is cooled below its dew point
d) When the material is cooled above its triple point
a
6. What is the main advantage of annealing?
a) It is done to achieve largeice crystals
b) It is done to achieve smallice crystals
c) It is done to achieve microscopicice crystals
d) It is done to achieve mixture of large and small ice crystals all
a
7. Which of the following is known to result in the highest quality of foods amongst all drying techniques?
a) Freeze drying
b) Cold pasteurization
c) Osmotic dehyradtion
d) Evaporation
a
8. How long does freeze drying take?
a) 10 to 40 hours
b) 20 to 40 hours
c) 30 to 50 hours
d) 5 to 20 hours
c
9. What foods cannot be freeze dried?
a) Foods with high fiber content
b) Foods with high Vitamin B12 content
c) Foods with high protein content
d) Foods with high fat content
d
10. Who discovered freeze drying?
a) Jacques-Arsened’Arsonval
b) Charles Chamberland
c) Willis Carrier
d) Clarence Birdseye
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Sun Drying» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Drying Equipments 
