1. What is the advantage of vacuum filtration?
a) Efficiency
b) Faster than other filtration equipment
c) Cost effective
d) Low power cost
b
2. Identify the filtration equipment?
a) Centrifugal filtration
b) Rotary filtration
c) Plate and frame filter
d) Vacuum filter
a
3. Why is cotton wool used in filtration?
a) Remove fine particles
b) Moderately coarsely particles
c) Big particles
d) Uniform particles
b
4. What is membrane filters made up of?
a) Cellulose acetate
b) Resins
c) Positively charge ions
d) Negatively charge ions
a
5. What is the disadvantage of the filter press?
a) The filtering media can be used repeatedly
b) Operation and maintenance is simple
c) It requires less space
d) It is used where the proportion of solid in the liquid to be filtered is about 5% or less
d
6. Is sintered filters are made up of borosilicate glass ?
a) True
b) False
a
7. Where is Meta filters used?
a) Water treatment
b) Metal recovery
c) Clarification of syrups
d) Oil recovery
c
8. What is hot filtration?
a) Prevent virus during filtration
b) Prevent bacteria during filtration
c) Minimize crystal formation during filtration
d) Prevent yeast during filtration
c
9. What is cold filtration?
a) To quickly cool a solution
b) Prevent bacteria during filtration
c) Minimize crystal formation during filtration
d) Prevent yeast during filtration
a
10. Are these statements about the filter aid true?
Statement 1: These are the substance which reduces the resistance of the filtrate to flow.
Statement 2: It should be inert to the liquid being filtered.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Fundamentals of Filtration» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Resistance of the Filtering Cake 
