1. What are the advantages of vacuum crystallizers?
a) Low yield of crystals
b) Small crystals
c) Increase in color formation
d) Reduced color formation
d
2. What is the principle behind forced-circulation crystallizers?
a) Evaporative crystallization
b) Cooling crystallization
c) Perceptive cooling crystallization
d) Freezing crystallization
a
3. Are these statements about the Forced circulation crystallizers true?
Statement 1: Difficult to control crystal size.
Statement 2: Least expensive type of crystallizer.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
b
4. What is the name of the unwanted crystals in draft tube baffle crystallizers?
a) Fines
b) Powder
c) Soap
d) Low quality crystals
a
5. What is residence time for draft tube baffle crystallizers?
a) 1 to 3 hours
b) 4 to 6 hours
c) 7 to 9 hours
d) 10 to 11 hours
b
Join [email protected]
6. Are these statements about the draft tube baffle crystallizers true?
Statement 1: Frequent flushing required minimizing deposits on the crystallizer wall.
Statement 2: Cannot effectively handle a high density slurry
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
b
7. What is surface-cooled crystallizer?
a) Combination of draft tube baffle crystallizer body with a heat exchanger
b) Combination of forced circulation crystallizer body with a heat exchanger
c) Combination of vacuum body with a heat exchanger
d) Combination of crystallizer body with a heat exchanger
a
8. What is not true about scraped surface crystallizers?
a) Low energy
b) Low cost
c) Ideal for small scale operation
d) Less consumption of time
d
9. Is organic substance produce by cooling crystallizers?
a) True
b) False
a
10. What is crystallizer used for?
a) Liquid-solid separation
b) Solid separation
c) Liquid – liquid separation
d) Gas – solid separation
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Crystallizers» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Mechanical Separation – Sedimentation Theory 
