1. What are the size reduction laws?
a) Rittinger’s Law
b) Kick’s Law
c) Bond’s Law
d) Bond’s Law, Rittinger’s Law, and Kick’s Law
d
2. Which mechanism is utilized when particle concussion by a single rigid force?
a) Impact
b) Compression
c) Shear
d) Tear
a
3. What is the mechanism of nut cracker?
a) Impact
b) Compression
c) Shear
d) Tear
b
4. What is shear force?
a) Force acting in direction parallel to surface of a body
b) Force acting in direction perpendicular to surface of a body
c) Force acting in direction longitudinal to surface of a body
d) Force acting in direction vertical to surface of a body
a
5. Why is uniform particle size important?
a) Color improvement
b) Product stability
c) Flavor improvement
d) Color and flavor improvement
b
6. Which of the following is a size reduction unit operation in liquids?
a) Milling
b) Mixing
c) Grinding
d) Homogenization
d
7. What are the factors affecting size reduction?
a) Shape and size
b) Temperature
c) Pressure
d) Viscosity
a
8. What is a hammer mill used for?
a) Crush larger pieces into small pieces
b) To compress the raw materials
c) Break down of liquefied emulsions
d) Break smaller pieces into fine powder
a
9. What is size reduction equipment?
a) Adding energy to a material to make large pieces smaller
b) Removing energy to a material to make large pieces smaller
c) Adding energy to a material to make small pieces larger
d) Removing energy to a material to make small pieces larger
a
10. What is use of edge runner?
a) To crush the pieces
b) To compress the pieces
c) To tear the pieces
d) To shear the pieces
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Filtration at Constant Volumetric Flow» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Size Reduction – Grinding Principles and Laws 
