1. What are the classifications of extraction equipment?
a) By gravity
b) By centrifugal forces
c) By centrifugal forces and size of the particle
d) By centrifugal forces and gravity
d
2. What is basic principle behind packed towers?
a) By gravity
b) By centrifugal forces
c) By centrifugal forces and size of the particle
d) By centrifugal forces and gravity
a
3. What are the main factors considered for the operation of extraction column?
a) Droplet size, axial dispersion
b) Droplet size distribution, axial dispersion
c) Droplet size, droplet size distribution
d) Droplet size, droplet size distribution and axial dispersion
d
4. What are methods for regeneration of solvents?
a) Rectification
b) Evaporation
c) Crystallization
d) Rectification, evaporation, crystallization
d
5. Which of the following statements about centrifugal extractors are correct?
Statement 1: Discrete stages can be recognized.
Statement 2: The applied centrifugal force causes the two phases to move radially in countercurrent mode.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
a
6. What is the purpose of extraction?
a) Separate an organic substance from a mixture
b) Separate an inorganic substance from a mixture
c) Separate both organic and inorganic substance from a mixture
d) Separate dust from a mixture
a
7. What are the methods of extraction used?
a) Pressing
b) Distillation
c) Solvent extraction
d) Solvent extraction, distillation method, pressing
d
8. What is percolation extraction?
a) A method of extraction by gravity
b) A method of extraction by filtration
c) A method of extraction by sedimentation
d) A method of extraction by distillation
b
9. What advantages does the Soxhlet extraction have over other extraction processes?
a) Complete extraction and high efficiency
b) Complete extraction and small solvent dosage
c) Small solvent dosage and complete extraction
d) Small solvent dosage, high efficiency and complete extraction
d
10. What solvent is used in phytonics extraction process?
a) Hydrofluorocarbon -134a
b) ammnia
c) CFCs
d) Alcohol
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Contact Equilibrium Separation Process – Extraction and Washing» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Membrane Separation 
