1. Why meats are not recommended for out-of-doors drying?
a) Meats are high in protein, making them ideal for microbial growth
b) Meat gets decomposed easily
c) Meat absorbs the outdoor odours
d) Vitamin B12 is lost during sun drying
a
2. What is hybrid solar dryer?
a) It is designed and constructed using direct solar energy and a heat exchanger.
b) It represents solar dyer but uses irradiation instead of sun rays
c) It is designed and constructed using direct solar energy and irradiation rays
d) It is used for only hybrid and genetically modified foods
a
3. What is the lower limit of moisture content by sun drying method?
a) 15%
b) 10%
c) 8%
d) 13%
a
4. Is sun drying and solar drying same?
a) True
b) False
b
5. Are these statements about the location for the sun drying true?
Statement 1:Low lying swampy areas are preferred for the sun drying of the products.
Statement 2:High relative humidity is preferred.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
d
6. What are the modes of heat transfer employed in solar drying systems?
a) Radiation and convection
b) Conduction and convection
c) Conduction and radiation
d) Radiation and conduction
a
7. Are these statements about the solar dryer true?
Statement 1: It is designed to collect and enhance solar radiation.
Statement 2: This drier is faster than sun-drying
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
b
8. What type of air temperature and humidity do the solar driers generate?
a) Highair temperature, lowhumidity
b) Lowair temperature, high humidity
c) Lowair temperature, lowhumidity
d) Highair temperature, highhumidity
a
9. What are advantages of sun drying?
a) Economical and environmentally friendly
b) Fast drying and environmentally friendly
c) Environmentally friendly
d) Economical
a
10. Which of the following is an important parameter in sun drying rate?
a) Convective heat transfer coefficient
b) Conductive heat transfer coefficient
c) Mass transfer coefficient
d) Dynamic mass transfer coefficient
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Drying Rate» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Freeze Drying 
