1. What is the soluble component called in absorption equipment?
a) Solute
b) Solvent
c) Liquid phase
d) Solution
a
2. Are these statements about the absorption true?
Statement 1: Operating pressure should be low for an absorber.
Statement 2: Operating temperature should be high for an absorber.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
d
3. What are the heat effects that cause temperatures to vary from point to point in a gas absorber?
a) The heat of solution
b) The heat of vaporization or condensation of the solvent
c) The heat of solution and the heat of vaporization or condensation of the solvent
d) No effect
c
4. At what conditions will the solute is absorbed more per stage or packing segment?
a) When L/G ratio is increased
b) When L/G ratio is decreased
c) When L/G ratio is negligible
d) When L/G ratio is reduced to very low level
a
5. Is a scrubber and absorber same?
a) True
b) False
b
6. What is stripping in absorption?
a) Operation of removing the absorbed solute from the solvent
b) Operation of removing the solvent from the absorbed solute
c) Operation of removing the unwanted solution
d) Operation of removing the catalyst
a
7. What is use of gas absorption column?
a) To study hydrodynamic process
b) To study absorption processes in packed columns
c) To study hydrodynamic and absorption processes in packed columns
d) To hold the gas
c
8. What is NTU?
a) Number of transfer units
b) Number of transport units
c) Neutral transfer units
d) Neutral tons units
a
9. What is channeling in gas absorption?
a) Down in the bed, the liquid tends to flow toward the wall
b) At the top of the bed, the liquid tends to flow toward the wall
c) Down in the bed, the liquid tends to flow away from the wall
d) At the top of the bed, the liquid tends to flow away from the wall
a
10. What process takes place when water is used as absorbent?
a) Stripping
b) Dilution
c) Distillation
d) Dissolving
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Absorption Mechanisms» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Absorption Principles 
