1. What is co-crystallization?
a) Parallel arrangement in crystallization
b) Catalysts
c) Cross arrangements in crystallization
d) Seeding agents
d
2. What is the mechanism of crystallization?
a) Nucleation, crystal maturation and growth
b) Nucleation and growth
c) Nucleation, growth, and crystal maturation
d) Nucleation and crystal maturation
c
3. What is crystallization temperature?
a) Temperature at which the brine solution is partially saturated
b) Temperature at which the brine solution is fully saturated
c) Temperature at which the solute and solvent is fully saturated
d) Temperature at which the solute and solvent is partially saturated
b
4. Is crystal size controlled by temperature?
a) True
b) False
a
5. Which of the following statements about evaporative crystallization are correct?
Statement 1:The process depends on evaporation of the solvent.
Statement 2:This process does not create vapor or suspension of crystals in mother liquor.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
a
6. Who invented crystallization?
a) Jabir ibn Hayyan
b) Charles Chamberland
c) Willis Carrier
d) Clarence Birdseye
a
7. What is special form of cooling crystallization process?
a) Freeze crystallization
b) Slow crystallization
c) Melt crystallization
d) Quick crystallization
c
8. Which process is called as a counter-current cascade?
a) Fractional crystallization
b) Cooling crystallization
c) Precipitation
d) Evaporative crystallization
a
9. Which of the following statements about fractional crystallization are correct?
Statement 1: In this process, repeated crystallization takes place.
Statement 2: It increases the purity of the material.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
b
10. Is cooling crystallization is more energy friendly than evaporative crystallization?
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Crystallization – Supersaturation» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Crystallization – Nucleation Mechanism 
