1. What is the principle behind paper chromatography?
a) It is based on partition chromatography
b) It is based on ions and its charge
c) It is based on charges only
d) It is based on ions only
a
2. What is Rf value?
a) Ratio of the distance moved by the solvent and the distance moved by the solute
b) Ratio of the distance moved by the solute and the distance moved by the solvent
c) Ratio of the concentration of solute and the concentration of the solvent
d) It Ratio of the concentration of solvent and the concentration of the solute
b
3. What is the best solvent for paper chromatography?
a) Water
b) Alcohol
c) Vinegar
d) Methanol
a
4. What does a high RF value mean in paper chromatography?
a) Substance is very non-polar
b) Substance is medium non-polar
c) Substance is polar
d) Substance is neutral
b
5. What are the two main types of chromatography?
a) Liquid chromatography and paper chromatography
b) Liquid chromatography and gas chromatography
c) Liquid chromatography and solid chromatography
d) Solid chromatography and gas chromatography
b
6. Why acetonitrile is used as solvent in HPLC?
a) Improve chromatographic peak shape
b) Provide a source of protons in reverse phase LC/MS
c) Provide a source of electrons in reverse phase LC/MS
d) Improve chromatographic peak shape and provide a source of protons in reverse phase LC/MS
d
7. Are these statements about the TFA (trifluoroacetic acid) in HPLC true?
Statement 1: It is commonly used as mobile phase additive.
Statement 2: It reduces the LC/MS signal.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
b
8. What causes peak tailing?
a) Depends on the concentration of solvent
b) Occurrence of more than one mechanism of analytic retention
c) Depends on the concentration of solute
d) No occurrence of more than one mechanism of analytic retention
b
9. Are these statements about the silica gel are used in TLC true?
Statement 1: It is widely used adsorbent and remains the dominant stationary phase.
Statement 2: The silanols are less acidic.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
b
10. Can negative peaks occur in HPLC?
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Evaporation of Heat Sensitive Materials» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Absorption Equipments 
