1. What are the classifications of membrane separation?
a) Pore size
b) Separation driving force
c) Separation driving pressure
d) Separation driving force and pore size
d
2. What is pore size of RO membranes?
a) 0.0005 microns
b) 0.005 microns
c) 0.05 microns
d) 0.5 microns
a
3. What are the applications of membrane separation?
a) Nano filtration
b) Microfiltration
c) Ultrafiltration
d) Microfiltration, ultrafiltration, nano-filtration
d
4. What is filter membrane made up of?
a) Thin layer of collodion, cellulose acetate
b) Thick layer of collodion, cellulose acetate
c) Thin layer of collodion
d) Thin layer of cellulose acetate
a
5. What is permeate?
a) Fluid that has retained in semi-permeable membrane
b) Fluid that has passed through semi-permeable membrane
c) Fluid that has to be passing through semi-permeable membrane
d) The residue after filtration
b
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Are these statements about the membrane separation process true?
Statement 1: It replaces the conventional processes like filtration, distillation, ion-exchange and chemical treatment systems.
Statement 2: Greater flexibility in designing systems.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
b
7. What are classification of membranes from a structural point of view ?
a) Asymmetrical and pore size
b) Symmetrical and pore size
c) Symmetrical and asymmetrical
d) Symmetrical and concentration of solute
c
8. What are the driving forces in membrane separation?
a) Osmotic pressure
b) Electrical field
c) Partial pressure
d) Osmotic pressure, electrical field and partial pressure
d
9. Is micro filtration is used to remove biological entities in the 0.25 μm to 5.0μm range?
a) True
b) False
a
10. Which of the following are in the order of descending order?
a) Nano filtration, ultrafiltration, Reverse osmosis and microfiltration
b) Reverse osmosis, nano filtration, ultrafiltration and microfiltration
c) Microfiltration, ultrafiltration, nano filtration and reverse osmosis
d) Ultrafiltration, microfiltration, nano filtration and reverse osmosis
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Contact Equilibrium Separation Process – Equipment Used for Extraction» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Membrane Separators 
