1. Rate of drying depends on which of the following statement?
Statement 1: Vapor pressure of water at drying temperature.
Statement 2: Vapor pressure in the external environment.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
b
2. Which of the following statements are true about drying?
Statement 1: Latent heat of vaporization is not necessary.
Statement 2: Moisture must be transported out from the food.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
c
3. What happens to the drying rate when it reaches critical moisture content?
a) Declines
b) Increases gradually
c) Stops
d) Becomes constant
a
4. What is the independent factor of the constant rate period?
a) Moisture content
b) Temperature
c) Pressure
d) Humidity
a
5. At what stage the case hardening of a material takes place?
a) Constant rate period
b) Falling rate period
c) Initial rate period
d) Equilibrium
a
6. Name the phenomenon which transfers moisture during second falling drying rate period?
a) Liquid diffusion
b) Capillary movement
c) Vapor diffusion
d) Liquid diffusion, capillary movement, and vapor diffusion.
d
7. What type of drying takes place when the food has high fat contents?
a) Slow
b) Fast
c) Constant
d) Quick
a
8. How does humidity affect drying rate?
a) No effect
b) Directly proportional
c) Indirect proportional
d) Linear increase
b
9. What is drying constant?
a) Mechanisms of heat and mass transport phenomena
b) Mechanism of heat phenomena
c) Mechanism of mass transport phenomena
d) Mechanism of drying phenomena
a
10. What happens to the drying rate during constant rate of drying period?
a) It reduces
b) It increases
c) Constant
d) Becomes negligible
b
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Drying – Equilibrium Moisture Content» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Sun Drying 
