1. What is use of Raoult’s law?
a) Calculate the concentration of an unknown solute
b) Calculate the molecular mass of an unknown solute
c) Calculate the molecular mass of an unknown solution
d) Calculate the concentration of an unknown solution
b
2. What is the use of vacuum distillation?
a) Mix components at lower temperature
b) Separate components at higher temperature
c) Separate components at lower temperature
d) Mix components at higher temperature
c
3. What is atmospheric distillation?
a) Separate low boiling fraction of mixture
b) Separate high boiling fraction of mixture
c) Concentration of low boiling fraction of mixture
d) Concentration of high boiling fraction of mixture
b
4. What are the different methods of extraction?
a) CO2 Extraction
b) Solvent Extraction
c) Steam Distillation
d) Steam Distillation, Solvent Extraction, CO2  Extraction
d
5. Which of the following statements about batch processes are correct?
Statement 1: These are economical for large volumes.
Statement 2: These are not flexible in changing production rate.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
d
6. What are the steps of distillation in alcohol manufacturing?
a) Fermentation, Distillation, and Finishing
b) Fermentation, Finishing
c) Fermentation, Distillation
d) Distillation, Finishing
a
7. What are benefits of vacuum distillation?
a) Faster processing time
b) Slower processing time
c) Low quality
d) Low feeding rate
a
8. What are the benefits of hydro distillation?
a) Low temperature distillation method
b) High temperature distillation method
c) Low concentration distillation method
d) Highconcentration distillation method
a
9. Which of the following statements about Soxhlet apparatus are correct?
Statement 1: Soxhlet apparatus is mainly used for extracting oils.
Statement 2: It allows for unmonitored and unmanaged operation.
a) True, False
b) True, True
c) False, True
d) False, False
b
10. Is batch distillation an unsteady state operation?
a) True
b) False
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Steam Distillation» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Crystal Geometry 
