1. What are the two processes in distillation?
a) Distilling and freezing
b) Distilling and condensation reflux
c) Freezing and condensation reflux
d) Only condensation reflux
b
2. What are the basic methods of distillation?
a) Fractional distillation and simple distillation
b) Fractional distillation, destructive distillation and simple distillation
c) Steam distillation, simple distillation and gas distillation
d) Steam distillation and destructive distillation
b
3. Who discovered distillation?
a) Jabir ibn Hayyan
b) Guldberg and Waage
c) Charles Chamberland
d) Clarence Birdseye
a
4. What apparatus is used in distillation?
a) Distillation flask, condenser, collection vessel
b) Distillation flask, condenser
c) Condenser, collection vessel
d) Distillation flask, column
a
5. Where is double distillation method used?
a) To prepare distilled water for laboratory purposes
b) To produce distilled water for commercial purposes
c) To produce wine for commercial purposes
d) To produce coffee for commercial purposes
a
6. What is the distillate in distillation?
a) Vapor collected from the mixture
b) Liquid present in the distillation column
c) Vapor introduced during distillation process
d) Liquid introduced during distillation process
a
7. Why is steel wool used in fractional distillation?
a) Increases the surface area
b) Improves the separation between the liquids
c) Increases the surface area and improves the separation between the liquids
d) Increases the surface area and the quality of the distillate
c
8. Does vacuum distillation higher boiling point?
a) True
b) False
b
9. Which of the following is produced by triple distillation method?
a) Coffee
b) Beer
c) Whisky
d) Wine
c
10. Why porcelain pieces are used in distillation?
a) To have uniform boiling
b) To hasten the process
c) To add weight for the substance
d) To absorb excess heat from the flask
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Food Processing Unit Operations.
To practice all areas of Food Processing Unit Operations,  here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Membrane Separators» Next - Food Processing Unit Operations Questions and Answers – Distillation – Partial Pressure 
