1. Which of the following is an advantage of anomaly detection?
a) Rules are easy to define
b) Custom protocols can be easily analyzed
c) The engine can scale as the rule set grows
d) Malicious activity that falls within normal usage patterns is detected
c
2. A false positive can be defined as ________
a) An alert that indicates nefarious activity on a system that, upon further inspection, turns out to represent legitimate network traffic or behavior
b) An alert that indicates nefarious activity on a system that is not running on the network
c) The lack of an alert for nefarious activity
d) Both An alert that indicates nefarious activity on a system that, upon further inspection, turns out to represent legitimate network traffic or behavior and An alert that indicates nefarious activity on a system that is not running on the network
d
3. One of the most obvious places to put an IDS sensor is near the firewall. Where exactly in relation to the firewall is the most productive placement?
a) Inside the firewall
b) Outside the firewall
c) Both inside and outside the firewall
d) Neither inside the firewall nor outside the firewall.
a
4. What is the purpose of a shadow honeypot?
a) To flag attacks against known vulnerabilities
b) To help reduce false positives in a signature-based IDS
c) To randomly check suspicious traffic identified by an anomaly detection system
d) To enhance the accuracy of a traditional honeypot
c
5. At which two traffic layers do most commercial IDSes generate signatures?
a) Application layer and Network layer
b) Network layer and Session Layer
c) Transport layer and Application layer
d) Transport layer and Network layer
d
6. IDS follows a two-step process consisting of a passive component and an active component. Which of the following is part of the active component?
a) Inspection of password files to detect inadvisable passwords
b) Mechanisms put in place to reenact known methods of attack and record system responses
c) Inspection of system to detect policy violations
d) Inspection of configuration files to detect inadvisable settings
b
7. When discussing IDS/IPS, what is a signature?
a) An electronic signature used to authenticate the identity of a user on the network
b) Attack-definition file
c) It refers to “normal,” baseline network behavior
d) It is used to authorize the users on a network
b
8. “Semantics-aware” signatures automatically generated by Nemean are based on traffic at which two layers?
a) Application layer and Transport layer
b) Network layer and Application layer
c) Session layer and Transport layer
d) Application layer and Session layer
d
9. Which of the following is used to provide a baseline measure for comparison of IDSes?
a) Crossover error rate
b) False negative rate
c) False positive rate
d) Bit error rate
a
10. Which of the following is true of signature-based IDSes?
a) They alert administrators to deviations from “normal” traffic behavior
b) They identify previously unknown attacks
c) The technology is mature and reliable enough to use on production networks
d) They scan network traffic or packets to identify matches with attack-definition files
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Computer Networks.
To practice all areas of Computer Networks for Entrance exams, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Computer Networks Questions & Answers – RPC» Next - Computer Networks Questions & Answers – PPP 
