1. Which of the following forces is favorable for protein folding?
a) Hydrophobic interactions
b) Hydrogen bonding
c) Vander Waals forces
d) Ionic bonding
a
2. A process by which a protein structure assumes its functional shape or conformation is?
a) Denaturing
b) Folding
c) Synthesis
d) Hydrolysis
b
3. Process of folding does not depend on ____________
a) Concentration of salts
b) pH
c) Solute
d) Solvent
c
4. Which of the following cannot denature a protein?
a) Iodoacetic acid
b) SDS detergent
c) Urea
d) Heating to 90°C
a
5. Which of the following is a function of chaperone protein?
a) It degrades proteins that have folded improperly
b) It provide a template for how the proteins should fold
c) It rescues proteins that have folded improperly and allows them to refold properly
d) It degrades proteins that have folded properly
c
6. As folding progresses which of the following does not take place?
a) Entropy decreases
b) Amount of protein in native state increases
c) Free energy increases
d) Amount of protein in native state decreases
d
7. Which of the following are chaperons in E.coli?
a) Hsp70
b) Hsp40
c) DnaA
d) DnaK and DnaJ
d
8. Which of the following about spontaneous folding is false?
a) It involves the initial formation of highly compact structure
b) It involves initial formation of a local secondary structure
c) It is essentially a random process
d) It may be defective in some human diseases
c
9. Protein A will fold into its native state only when protein B is also present in the solution. However, protein B can fold itself into native confirmation without the presence of protein A. Which of the following is true?
a) Protein B serves as precursor for protein A
b) Protein B serves as molecular chaperon for protein A
c) Protein B serves as ligand for protein A
d) Protein B serves as structural motif for protein A
b
10. Which of the following is true about ribonucease?
a) Native state which is catalytically inactive is denatured
b) Unfolded state is inactive
c) Renatured ribonuclease is inactive
d) Renaturation involves reestablishment of the correct disulfide cross links
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Biochemistry.
To practice all areas of Biochemistry, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Biochemistry Questions and Answers – Protein Tertiary and Quaternary Structures» Next - Biochemistry Questions and Answers – Reversible Binding of a Protein to a Ligand: Oxygen-Binding Proteins 
