1. What happens in hypochromicity?
a) When DNA is in bound form, there is decrease in absorption of UV light
b) When DNA is in bound form, there is increase in absorption of UV light
c) When DNA is in unbound form, it is more stable
d) When DNA is in unbound form, there is decrease in absorption of UV light
a
2. What happens in hyperchromicity?
a) When DNA is in bound form, there is decrease in absorption of UV light
b) When DNA is in bound form, there is increase in absorption of UV light
c) When DNA is in unbound form, it is more stable
d) When DNA is in unbound form, there is increase in absorption of UV light
d
3. Which of the following is true about tm?
a) It can be termed as renaturation temperature
b) The higher the content of G ≡ C base pairs, the higher the tm
c) The higher the content of A = T base pairs, the higher the tm
d) The higher the content of G ≡ C base pairs, the lower the tm
b
4. Which of the following is false?
a) The stability of an RNA-DNA hybrid is generally intermediate between that of RNA and DNA
b) RNA duplexes are more stable than DNA duplexes
c) DNA duplexes are more stable than RNA duplexes
d) DNA duplexes are less stable than RNA- DNA hybrid
c
5. DNA denaturation is measured by absorbance at ___________
a) 220nm
b) 230nm
c) 250nm
d) 260nm
d
6. Which of the following is false about denaturation?
a) Disruption of hydrogen bonds
b) Disruption of phosphodiester linkage
c) Loss of helical structure of DNA
d) It is resulted as a result of change in pH or increase in temperature
b
7. Which of the following nucleotides is not present in RNA?
a) AMP
b) GMP
c) CMP
d) TMP
d
8. Which of the following nucleotides is not present in DNA?
a) AMP
b) GMP
c) CMP
d) UMP
d
9. Which of the following is false?
a) RNA does not obey Chargaff’s rule
b) DNAs can be identified by Orcinol color reaction
c) In RNA OH group is present at 2’ position
d) Alkali hydrolyses RNA to 2’3’-cyclic diesters
b
10. Which of the following involves carrying genetic information from DNA for protein synthesis?
a) m-RNA
b) t-RNA
c) r-RNA
d) sn-RNA
a
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Biochemistry.
To practice all areas of Biochemistry, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Biochemistry Questions and Answers – Nucleic Acid Structure» Next - Biochemistry Questions and Answers – DNA Cloning: The Basics-1 
