1. The salt which produces salting out effect during extraction of proteins is?
a) NH4 SO4
b) (NH4)2 SO4
c) (NH4)3 SO4
d) NaCl
b
2. Mobile phase can be ___________
a) Only solid
b) Only gas
c) Solid or liquid
d) Liquid or gas
d
3. The pattern on paper in chromatography is called __________
a) Chroming
b) Chroma
c) Chromatograph
d) Chromatogram
d
4. Which of the following statements about column chromatography is correct?
a) Resolution increases as the length of the column increases
b) Mobile phase is a porous solid material with appropriate chemical properties held in the column
c) Stationary phase is a buffered solution that percolates through mobile phase
d) Large proteins emerge from the column sooner than small ones
a
5. Which of the following statements is true about size-exclusion chromatography?
a) During the separation of a mixture of proteins, protein with smallest molecular weight is eluted first
b) During the separation of a mixture of proteins, protein with largest molecular weight is eluted first
c) During the separation of a mixture of proteins, protein with largest molecular weight is eluted last
d) During the separation of a mixture of proteins, protein with largest molecular weight flow around the beads
b
Join Sanfoundry@YouTube
6. Which of the following statements is true about affinity chromatography?
a) During the separation of a mixture of proteins, the protein which does not bind to ligand is eluted first
b) During the separation of a mixture of proteins, the protein which does not bind to ligand is eluted last
c) During the separation of a mixture of proteins, the protein which binds to ligand is eluted first
d) Unwanted proteins are eluted by ligand solution
a
7. Which of the following statements is true about ion-exchange chromatography?
a) It separates proteins according to their size
b) The column matrix with bound anionic groups is called cationic exchanger
c) The column matrix with bound anionic groups is called anionic exchanger
d) The column matrix with bound cationic groups is called cationic exchanger
b
Cationic exchanger exchanges cations with anionic groups.
8. Which of the following statements is true about SDS polyacrylamide chromatography?
a) SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis separates proteins on the basis of size
b) SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis separates proteins on the basis of charge
c) SDS binds to proteins non-covalently with a stoichiometry of around one SDS molecule per three amino acids
d) SDS binds to proteins non-covalently with a stoichiometry of around one SDS molecule per one amino acid
b
SDS binds to proteins non-covalently with a stoichiometry of around one SDS molecule per two amino acids.
9. Which of the following statements is true about two-dimensional electrophoresis?
a) Separates proteins of identical molecular weight, same pI but different charge
b) Separates proteins of different molecular weight and different pI
c) Separates proteins of identical molecular weight that differ in pI
d) Isoelectric focusing is also termed as two-dimensional electrophoresis
c
10. Which of the following statements is false?
a) The term activity refers to the total units of enzyme in a solution
b) The specific activity is a measure of enzyme purity
c) Specific activity increases during purification of an enzyme and becomes maximal and constant when the enzyme is pure
d) Specific activity decreases during purification of an enzyme and becomes maximal and constant when the enzyme is pure
d
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Biochemistry.
To practice all areas of Biochemistry, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Biochemistry Questions and Answers – Peptides and Proteins» Next - Biochemistry Questions and Answers – The Covalent Structure of Proteins 
