1. Which of the following is not true about secondary protein structure?
a) The hydrophilic/hydrophobic character of amino acid residues is important to secondary structure
b) The ability of peptide bonds to form intramolecular hydrogen bonds is important to secondary structure
c) The alpha helix, beta pleated sheet and beta turns are examples of protein secondary structure
d) The steric influence of amino acid residues is important to secondary structure
a
2. A structure that has hydrogen bonds between polypeptide chains arranged side by side is ____________
a) Primary structure
b) α-helix
c) β-pleated sheets
d) Tertiary structure
c
3. The enzyme of E.coli is a nuclease that initiates the repair of double stranded DNA breaks by homologous recombination is?
a) DNA glycosylase
b) DNA ligase
c) DNA polymerase
d) RNA polymerase
a
4. Which of the statements is false about multiple sequence alignment?
a) Both protein and nucleic acid secondary structures can be used
b) More useful in RNA
c) These alignments can be made more accurate by the inclusion of secondary structure information
d) A significant increase in accuracy
b
5. Which of the following serves as a bactericidal agent?
a) Ribonuclease
b) Lysozyme
c) Cytochrome c
d) Myoglobin
b
6. Which of the following enzyme is secreted by the pancreas?
a) Ribonuclease
b) Lysozyme
c) Cytochrome c
d) Myoglobin
a
7. Which of the following statement is false?
a) Lysozyme has S-S linkage
b) Ribonuclease has S-S linkage
c) Heme group in cytochrome c is covalently linked to the protein on two sides
d) Ribonuclease has SH-SH linkage
d
8. Which of the following is first determined as oligomer?
a) Myoglobin
b) Collagen
c) Keratin
d) Hemoglobin
d
9. Which of the following is abundantly found in collagen?
a) Glycine
b) Serine
c) Alanine
d) Tryptophan
a
10. Which of the following are important for white blood cell recognition?
a) Glycosaminoglycans
b) Proteoglycans
c) Glycoproteins
d) Glycolipids
c
Sanfoundry Global Education & Learning Series – Biochemistry.
To practice tough questions and answers on all areas of Biochemistry, here is complete set of 1000+ Multiple Choice Questions and Answers.
Participate in the Sanfoundry Certification contest to get free Certificate of Merit. Join our social networks below and stay updated with latest contests, videos, internships and jobs!
Telegram | Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
Youtube | LinkedIn | Instagram | Facebook | Twitter | Pinterest
« Prev - Biochemistry Questions and Answers – Regulation of Gene Expression in Prokaryotes – 2» Next - Biochemistry – Tricky Questions and Answers 
